Sourcegraph 4.0 launch blogs (#5623)
sourcegraph/about: content/blogposts/2022/sourcegraph-4.0.md

Auto-indexing allows customers to set up precise code navigation for any chosen repositories with the click of a button in the Sourcegraph UI. Now, all Cloud teams can enjoy precise code navigation with only minutes of setup, and any member of a team can turn it on for their respective repositories.

<!-- First cut from integrations team -->
### Sunsetting of the Sourcegraph extensions

We will be deprecating our current Sourcegraph extensions framework so that we can make way for a new model that allows a deeper integration throughout our entire code intelligence platform.

In this release your favorite extensions (git-extras, open-in-editor and search-exports) will become part of the core application. Making them faster, more discoverable and ensuring they continue to be improved upon.

<!-- First cut from Repo/IAM/Admin Analytics team -->

### Complete Admin Analytics

With 3.42, we introduced an all-new admin analytics including. Now with 4.0, we're significantly improving on the initial release. 4.0 includes dozens of updates including pages for all Sourcegraph features, annual projections for dev-time-saved, data exports, individual user usage table, and much more. 

> ### 1-click log export 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Export Sourcegraph logs with 1 click
```

We would love if everything always worked with Sourcegraph, but no matter how much you test, bugs will always arise. With the introduction of 1-click log exports, we're making it simple to export all logs associated with Sourcegraph to ease the debugging process. 

> ### Repo config Experience (such as Repo syncing status)
> 
> Configuring code host connections and permissions syncing is a core prat of the admin experience, and historically, it has been painful to do. With Sourcegraph 4.0, we have introduced more than X quality of life improvements to help admins understand the current state of repository and permissions syncing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Improved Repository Configuration experience

Configuring code host connections and permissions syncing is a key component of admin experience and it has historically been a poor customer experience. With Sourcegraph 4.0, we have introduced more than X quality of life improvements to help admins better understand the current state of repository and permissions syncing. 
```

### Repo config Experience (such as Repo syncing status)

Configuring code host connections and permissions syncing is a core prat of the admin experience, and historically, it has been painful to do. With Sourcegraph 4.0, we have introduced more than X quality of life improvements to help admins understand the current state of repository and permissions syncing. 

{/* @benvenker Search Product and core workflow draftt */}
### Smarter code search
Search is now more intelligent by defaul and automtically generates and runs alternative queries when your initial query doesn't have many results. This can be disabled so you still get only literal or structural matches when you need to, but in many cases the new smarter search is likely to be better. This will especially benefit new users of Sourcegraph who don't yet know the query syntax. The default query syntax is also simplified, allowing you to combine literal search terms and regular expressions with `/`'s like so: `authentication /^my|regex$/`.

### Simplified UI

> We've made a number of small usabilty improvements to simplify the search UI and make Sourcegraph feel less complex.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've made a number of usabilty improvements to simplify the search UI and make Sourcegraph feel more concise and easier to use.
```

Thinking that this is a bunch of small changes that make a big impact as a whole, so we shouldn't undercut it. I'm also suggesting phrasing it so that instead of "perceived bad" → "less bad," it's solely "better!"

In the future we can leverage a similar OpenTelemetry-by-default approach to integrate logs, metrics, and more in the same manner.

<!-- @macraig: this is a draft --> 
### Precise IDE-like code navigation across 9 different languages
- Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Python, TypeScript, JavaScript
- New: Ruby, Rust

### New code navigation admin analytics
Introducing an improved version of the code navigation admin dashboard that helps admins understand their percentage of precise navigation coverage and get precise code graph data configured for all repositories.

### Auto-indexing is now available by default for all Cloud customers
Auto-indexing allows customers to set up precise code navigation for any chosen repositories with the click of a button in the Sourcegraph UI. Now, all Cloud teams can enjoy precise code navigation with only minutes of setup, and any member of a team can turn it on for their respective repositories.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### New version of the reference panel 
TBD

### Introducing multi-version upgrades
Upgrading a Sourcegraph instance is an eventful and hands-on process for site admins. The current process, understandably, outright prevents site-admins from staying up to date as long as their current instance is stable. Additionally, it increases burden on the Sourcegraph team as they are asked to troubleshoot and support months-out-of-date code.

### Introducing multi-version upgrades
Upgrading a Sourcegraph instance has historically been an eventful and hands-on process for site admins. This means that a considerable amount of our customers struggle to upgrade their instances, and are missing out on a lot of the improvements and new features we've shipped in our latest versions. Starting in 4.0, customers will be able to seamlessly upgrade from any 3.29+ version to 4.0 onwards.
```

This will be a breaking change for customers - for example, for tracing today, we only export Jaeger-specific traces and ship Sourcegraph with Jaeger-specific sidecars and agents. By adopting OpenTelemetry, we would swap this out with an OpenTelemetry instance, and remove the need to have Jaeger shipped with every deployment of Sourcegraph, making Jaeger an opt-in deployment, and prompting customers to bring their own tracing backend by default.

In the future we can leverage a similar OpenTelemetry-by-default approach to integrate logs, metrics, and more in the same manner.

<!-- @macraig: this is a draft --> 
### Precise IDE-like code navigation across 9 different languages
- Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Python, TypeScript, JavaScript
- New: Ruby, Rust

### New code navigation admin analytics
Introducing an improved version of the code navigation admin dashboard that helps admins understand their percentage of precise navigation coverage and get precise code graph data configured for all repositories.

### Auto-indexing is now available by default for all Cloud customers

> Auto-indexing allows customers to set up precise code navigation for any chosen repositories with the click of a button in the Sourcegraph UI. Now, all Cloud teams can enjoy precise code navigation with only minutes of setup, and any member of a team can turn it on for their respective repositories.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Auto-indexing allows customers to set up precise code navigation for any chosen repositories with the click of a button in the Sourcegraph UI. Now, all Cloud teams can enjoy precise code navigation with only minutes of setup, and any member of a team can turn it on for their respective repositories.

```

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.0"
publishDate: 
description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.0"
published: false
heroImage: 
socialImage: 
changelogItems:
---

> # Sourcegraph 4.0

Reviewer 4: The template for the 4.0 release post will be as follows and it can be found in this doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ng5pzuCH80DavqXlp8PxAM8DOaqFl7o8m_puzVCAuAs/edit?usp=sharing

Subhead: The code intelligence platform for the modern development team

Intro: TODO

Theme 1: Code intelligence: more useful, more times daily
TEMPLATE 
The information below should be provided by PMs for all new features that will be included in Sourcegraph 4.0

Headline: [Do X] with [Z]
Description: 2 - 4 sentences on the feature, functionality, and benefits
Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy
Tag by product: [Code Search], [Batch Changes], [Code Navigation], [Code Insights], [Admin]
Documentation: provide a link to the documentation

Theme 2: High-leverage ways to improve your codebase
TEMPLATE 
The information below should be provided by PMs for all new features that will be included in Sourcegraph 4.0

Headline: [Do X] with [Z]
Description: 2 - 4 sentences on the feature, functionality, and benefits
Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy
Tag by product: [Code Search], [Batch Changes], [Code Navigation], [Code Insights], [Admin]
Documentation: provide a link to the documentation

Theme 3: Love for admins 

TEMPLATE 
The information below should be provided by PMs for all new features that will be included in Sourcegraph 4.0

Headline: [Do X] with [Z]
Description: 2 - 4 sentences on the feature, functionality, and benefits
Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy
Tag by product: [Code Search], [Batch Changes], [Code Navigation], [Code Insights], [Admin]
Documentation: provide a link to the documentation

Theme 4: Dedicated enterprise cloud deployment
TEMPLATE 
The information below should be provided by PMs for all new features that will be included in Sourcegraph 4.0

Headline: [Do X] with [Z]
Description: 2 - 4 sentences on the feature, functionality, and benefits
Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy
Tag by product: [Code Search], [Batch Changes], [Code Navigation], [Code Insights], [Admin]
Documentation: provide a link to the documentation

To the PMs - please provide your inputs to this PR by EOD 8/31 in the format listed above.

@benvenker @malomarrec @Joelkw @macraig @efritz @ryphil @ryankscott @quinnhare @taylorsperry

Reviewer 5: @lcolston08 @iskyOS is it possible for marketing to make the PR to first input the template as you would like it? It seems like this is just a format change, rather than an information change. (We all have the information on our features in this post already.) 

There's a chance we'll end up with some odd formatting inconsistencies if we all patchwork various aspects of this template and it'll probably be much faster to have 1 person take the information already in this blog post rather than have to chase down 9 other individuals to just make the same reformatting change (if I understand that's what this request is).

Reviewer 4: I went ahead and made the copy and format changes in the PR. I made comments first, but now I plan to accept them. Thanks for the feedback.

> NOTE: This post is very WIP. It's a rough draft of what individual teams intend to ship.

- [From code search toward a code intelligence platform](/blog/code-search-to-code-intelligence) - the longer-term vision/story
- [Secure, easy, and scalable Sourcegraph Cloud managed instances for the enterprise](/blog/enterprise-cloud) - the Cloud announcement (including SOC2 Type 2, etc.) that coincides with 4.0

## TL;DR

`TODO(sqs): The section headers with emojis are what I think we should use, but the wording of the bullet points within are WIP`

##### 🌅 Code intelligence: more useful, more times daily for every dev

- The fastest and most scalable code search (search perf, page load perf, scalability: # repos, big monorepos, # code hosts, etc.)
- TODO how to introduce the simple UI?
- Smarter code search
- High-level aggregations of search results
- Precise code navigation for 9 languages (adding Ruby and Rust) with auto-indexing

##### 🏗️ High-leverage ways to improve your entire codebase

> - Run batch changes server side

Reviewer 6: This resonates with _me_, but I wonder if it would be more effective to phrase it in a way that focuses less on the product and more on what it makes possible. (Like, what are batch changes and why do I care if they are run on the server side?) But I'm having a hard time condensing it from the paragraph in my head into a punchy bullet point.

@malomarrec Any ideas here?

Reviewer 6: Oh, duh, you totally say the same thing later down the page 🤦🏻

Reviewer 7: Yeah I think it boils down to "who's the target audience", @abschu ?
If we are trying to exhibit the delta (what you can do now you couldn't before), which it does now, or re-introduce Batch Changes from scratch.
In which case, the bullet point could just be "apply and track automated code changes across your codebase, at any scale"

Reviewer 8: @malomarrec @chrispine - we should focus on what's new, but also use this as an opportunity to explain what Batch Changes is.

We're introducing the ability to run batch changes server-side instead of locally, which means you can:
- Run large-scale or resource intensive batch changes without clogging your local machine.
- Run large batch changes fast by distributing them across an autoscaled pool of compute instances.
- Get a better debugging experience, with logs being streamed directly into Sourcegraph.
- Simplify setup for end users.

<video loop autoPlay muted playsInline>
  <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/4.0/side-by-side.mp4" type="video/mp4" data-cookieconsent="ignore" />
</video>

This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run [Code Intelligence auto-indexing](#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs). If you're on cloud, one or more executors are available by default on your instance.

> ### See high-level aggregations of your search results set, to quickly answer questions about usage and structure

Reviewer 5: Until we have images for the post, you (internal teammates) can see the full scope of this feature and [rough mocks in the source of truth spec RFC 727.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yLV7MGOEXYT3yPvBxHHm8y2-p737KIrju_QPqlhBYz4/edit)

Sourcegraph returns an exhaustive list of search results – but sometimes you need to know things like: 

> - Which files have the bulk of these search results? 
> - Which repos is this library used in most? 
> - Which subcomponents are used most from this library?
> - Who is using our new innersource library?  
> - Which areas of the code added back in these regressions? 
> - What are all the possible arguments we can pass to this function? 
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Which files have the majority of these search results? 
- Which repos is this library used in most? 
- Which library components are used most? By who?
- What are all the possible arguments we pass to this function? 
- And a number of [other examples](TODO ADD LINK TO SEARCH AGGREGATIONS TEMPLATES DOC – coming by late August after we test live on the feature). 

```

> To answer these questions, Sourcegraph now shows you your search results grouped by location (repo or file), author, and arbitrary capture group pattern. If you want to save any aggregations for future reference, you can 1-click save the results to a code insights dashboard.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To answer these questions, you can show your search results grouped by location (repo or file), author, and arbitrary capture group pattern. If you want to save any aggregations for future reference, you can 1-click save the results to a code insights dashboard.
```

This will be a breaking change for customers - for example, for tracing today, we only export Jaeger-specific traces and ship Sourcegraph with Jaeger-specific sidecars and agents. By adopting OpenTelemetry, we would swap this out with an OpenTelemetry instance, and remove the need to have Jaeger shipped with every deployment of Sourcegraph, making Jaeger an opt-in deployment, and prompting customers to bring their own tracing backend by default.

In the future we can leverage a similar OpenTelemetry-by-default approach to integrate logs, metrics, and more in the same manner.

{/* @macraig: this is a draft */} 
### Precise IDE-like code navigation across 9 different languages
- Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Python, TypeScript, JavaScript
- New: Ruby, Rust

### New code navigation admin analytics
Introducing an improved version of the code navigation admin dashboard that helps admins understand their percentage of precise navigation coverage and get precise code graph data configured for all repositories.

### Auto-indexing is now available by default for all Cloud customers

> Auto-indexing allows customers to set up precise code navigation for any chosen repositories with the click of a button in the Sourcegraph UI. Now, all Cloud teams can enjoy precise code navigation with only minutes of setup, and any member of a team can turn it on for their respective repositories.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Auto-indexing allows customers to set up precise code navigation for any chosen repositories with the click of a button in the Sourcegraph UI. Now, all Cloud teams can enjoy precise code navigation with only minutes of setup, and any member of a team can configure it for their respective repositories.
```

- Which files have the bulk of these search results?
- Which repositories is this library used in most?
- Which subcomponents are used most from this library?
- Who is using our new innersource library?
- Which areas of the code were added back in these regressions?
- What are all the possible arguments we can pass to this function?
- Aggregation can easily be reused by saving the visualization to your Code Insights dashboard.

Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

[Code Insights]

Docs: provide a link to the updated docs
### Configure precise code navigation for 9 languages in a matter of minutes with auto-indexing
Code navigation allows you to quickly jump to symbol definitions, find references, dependencies, and more, so you can spend more time shipping code. Precise code navigation is the most powerful version of code navigation and it works cross-repository. We now support 9 languages including Ruby, Rust, Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Python, TypeScript, JavaScript. Auto-indexing makes precise code navigation work across all of your code, automatically, and it’s turned on by default for our Cloud customers. 

> ![ruby-precise](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code-intelligence/4.0/ruby-precise.gif "Ruby-precise-code-navigation")

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![ruby-precise](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code-intelligence/4.0/ruby-precise.mp4)

```

- [From code search toward a code intelligence platform](/blog/code-search-to-code-intelligence) - the longer-term vision/story
- [Secure, easy, and scalable Sourcegraph Cloud managed instances for the enterprise](/blog/enterprise-cloud) - the Cloud announcement (including SOC2 Type 2, etc.) that coincides with 4.0

## TL;DR

`TODO(sqs): The section headers with emojis are what I think we should use, but the wording of the bullet points within are WIP`

##### 🌅 Code intelligence: more useful, more times daily for every dev

- The fastest and most scalable code search (search perf, page load perf, scalability: # repos, big monorepos, # code hosts, etc.)
- TODO how to introduce the simple UI?
- Smarter code search
- High-level aggregations of search results
- Precise code navigation for 9 languages (adding Ruby and Rust) with auto-indexing

##### 🏗️ High-leverage ways to improve your entire codebase

- Run batch changes server side
- Something about the new packaging with batch changes and code insights

##### ☁️ Enterprise Cloud dedicated(/managed?) instances

- [Secure, easy, and scalable Sourcegraph Cloud dedicated(/managed?) instances for the enterprise](/blog/enterprise-cloud)

> ##### 💖 For admins

Reviewer 8: @iskyOS @lcolston08 - are we going to mention multi-version upgrades in the release post?

Reviewer 4: Same. It should be listed as a key feature under the Love for admins theme. So this would mean higher up in our features under that theme.

Docs: provide a link to the updated docs

### Easily export traces using OpenTelemetry

[OpenTelemetry (OTEL)](https://opentelemetry.io/) is an open specification for exporting observability data into a user’s preferred systems. We aim to make OpenTelmetry the default way to quickly and easily export observability data from Sourcgraph, starting with tracing in Sourcegraph 4.0. This is a breaking change since we now require customers to export tracing using the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/), which will now be deployed by default in all Sourcegraph deployment methods, replacing the Jaeger agents and collectors we used to ship by default.

[Admin]

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/observability/opentelemetry)

### Save time upgrading to Sourcegraph 4.0 with multi-version upgrades
Multi-version upgrades help to reduce the burden and time required to upgrade to the latest version of Sourcegraph. Customers will now be able to seamlessly upgrade from any 3.20+ version to Sourcegraph 4.0 in just a few simple steps. With faster upgrades, customers can quickly start using the new features and enhancements that are released every month. 

> ![Multi-version upgrades](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Multi-version%20Upgrades.gif "Multi-version upgrades")

Reviewer 4: @efritz Hi, I belive you plan to provide another video closer to launch, and when you do, could you please record it as a video and not a gif for quality purposes? Thank you

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
![Multi-version upgrades](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Multi-version%20Upgrades.mp4 "Multi-version upgrades")
```

- Which files have the bulk of these search results?
- Which repositories is this library used in most?
- Which subcomponents are used most from this library?
- Who is using our new innersource library?
- Which areas of the code were added back in these regressions?
- What are all the possible arguments we can pass to this function?
- Aggregation can easily be reused by saving the visualization to your Code Insights dashboard.

Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

[Code Insights]

Docs: provide a link to the updated docs
### Configure precise code navigation for 9 languages in a matter of minutes with auto-indexing
Code navigation allows you to quickly jump to symbol definitions, find references, dependencies, and more, so you can spend more time shipping code. Precise code navigation is the most powerful version of code navigation and it works cross-repository. We now support 9 languages including Ruby, Rust, Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Python, TypeScript, JavaScript. Auto-indexing makes precise code navigation work across all of your code, automatically, and it’s turned on by default for our Cloud customers. 

> ![ruby-precise](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code-intelligence/4.0/ruby-precise.gif "Ruby-precise-code-navigation")

Reviewer 4: @macraig Could you please re-record the video for ruby and send it to me as a video recording instead of a gif? This will help with the video quality and size. Thank you!

- Run large-scale or resource-intensive batch changes without clogging your local machine
- Run large batch changes quickly by distributing them across an autoscaled pool of compute instances
- Get a better debugging experience with the streaming of logs directly into Sourcegraph.

This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run [Code Intelligence auto-indexing](https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/blob/bf341aafde75450c295aaec064470017020cdcd8/content/blogposts/2022/sourcegraph-4.0.md#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs) as well. One or more executors are available by default on Cloud instances of Sourcegraph.

![Server-Side Batch Changes](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Batch_Changes_Side_by_Side.mp4 "Server-Side Batch Changes")

[Batch Changes]

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/server_side)

> ##### ☁️ Enterprise Cloud dedicated(/managed?) instances
> 
> - [Secure, easy, and scalable Sourcegraph Cloud dedicated(/managed?) instances for the enterprise](/blog/enterprise-cloud)
> 
> Headline: [Do X] with [Z]
> Description: 2 - 4 sentences on the feature, functionality and benefits
> Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy
> Tag by product: [Code Search], [Batch Changes], [Code Navigation], [Code Insights], [Admin]
> Docs: provide a link to the updated docs

Author: ```suggestion
##### ☁️ Dedicated Sourcegraph Cloud instances for enterprise

### Get started with Sourcegraph faster than ever
After many years of building Sourcegraph into a secure and highly-scalable solution, we're ready to bring it to the cloud. Sourcegraph Cloud now offers dedicated, single-tenant instances of Sourcegraph, making it easier than ever for new teams to get started. You can read more in our announcement blog here[/blog/enterprise-cloud].

Media: None

Docs: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/cloud
```

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.0"
publishDate: 
description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.0"
published: false
heroImage: 
socialImage: 
changelogItems:
---

# Sourcegraph 4.0

> NOTE: This post is very WIP. It's a rough draft of what individual teams intend to ship.

- [From code search toward a code intelligence platform](/blog/code-search-to-code-intelligence) - the longer-term vision/story
- [Secure, easy, and scalable Sourcegraph Cloud managed instances for the enterprise](/blog/enterprise-cloud) - the Cloud announcement (including SOC2 Type 2, etc.) that coincides with 4.0

## TL;DR

`TODO(sqs): The section headers with emojis are what I think we should use, but the wording of the bullet points within are WIP`

##### 🌅 Code intelligence: more useful, more times daily for every dev

- The fastest and most scalable code search (search perf, page load perf, scalability: # repos, big monorepos, # code hosts, etc.)
- TODO how to introduce the simple UI?
- Smarter code search

> - High-level aggregations of search results

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Understand usage and search structure with high-level aggregations of search results
High-level aggregations of search results powered by Code Insights are now displayed in addition to results. Responses to the query are now grouped by location (repo or file), author, and arbitrary capture group pattern to help answer to questions such as:

Which files have the bulk of these search results?
Which repositories is this library used in most?
Which subcomponents are used most from this library?
Who is using our new innersource library?
Which areas of the code were added back in these regressions?
What are all the possible arguments we can pass to this function?
Aggregation can easily be reused by saving the visualization to your Code Insights dashboard.
Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy
Tag by product: [Code Insights]
Documentation: provide a link to the documentation
@Joelkw
```

- Precise code navigation for 9 languages (adding Ruby and Rust) with auto-indexing

##### 🏗️ High-leverage ways to improve your entire codebase

> - Run batch changes server side

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Make changes across all of your codebases at enterprise scale with server-side Batch Changes (beta)
Batch Changes can now run across thousands of repositories with a better development experience. Previously, you had to run src-cli locally to create batch changes. That could take an impractical amount of time or be brittle for large or resource-intensive batch changes. By running Batch Changes server-side you can:

Run large-scale or resource-intensive batch changes without clogging your local machine

Run large batch changes quickly by distributing them across an autoscaled pool of compute instances

Get a better debugging experience with the streaming of logs directly into Sourcegraph.

This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run [Code Intelligence auto-indexing](https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/blob/bf341aafde75450c295aaec064470017020cdcd8/content/blogposts/2022/sourcegraph-4.0.md#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs) as well. One or more executors are available by default on Cloud instances of Sourcegraph.

Tag by product: [Batch Changes]
Documentation: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/server_side
```

> - Run batch changes server side

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Make changes across all of your codebases at enterprise scale with server-side Batch Changes (beta)
Batch Changes can now run across thousands of repositories with a better development experience. Previously, you had to run src-cli locally to create batch changes. That could take an impractical amount of time or be brittle for large or resource-intensive batch changes. By running Batch Changes server-side you can:

- Run large-scale or resource-intensive batch changes without clogging your local machine
- Run large batch changes quickly by distributing them across an autoscaled pool of compute instances
- Get a better debugging experience with the streaming of logs directly into Sourcegraph

This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run [Code Intelligence auto-indexing](https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/blob/bf341aafde75450c295aaec064470017020cdcd8/content/blogposts/2022/sourcegraph-4.0.md#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs) as well. One or more executors are available by default on Cloud instances of Sourcegraph.

[Batch Changes]
Documentation: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/server_side
```

- Something about the new packaging with batch changes and code insights

##### ☁️ Enterprise Cloud dedicated(/managed?) instances

- [Secure, easy, and scalable Sourcegraph Cloud dedicated(/managed?) instances for the enterprise](/blog/enterprise-cloud)

##### 💖 For admins

- Admin analytics
- 1-click log export

> - OpenTelemetry

Reviewer 10: > Easily export traces using OpenTelemetry

> - OpenTelemetry

Reviewer 10: Easily export traces using OpenTelemetry

[OpenTelemetry (OTEL)](https://opentelemetry.io/) is an open specification for exporting observability data into a user’s preferred systems. We aim to make OpenTelmetry the default way to quickly and easily export observability data from Sourcgraph, starting with tracing in Sourcegraph 4.0. This is a breaking change since we now require customers to export tracing using the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/), which will now be deployed by default in all Sourcegraph deployment methods, replacing the Jaeger agents and collectors we used to ship by default.

> - OpenTelemetry

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Easily export traces using OpenTelemetry

[OpenTelemetry (OTEL)](https://opentelemetry.io/) is an open specification for exporting observability data into a user’s preferred systems. We aim to make OpenTelmetry the default way to quickly and easily export observability data from Sourcgraph, starting with tracing in Sourcegraph 4.0. This is a breaking change since we now require customers to export tracing using the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/), which will now be deployed by default in all Sourcegraph deployment methods, replacing the Jaeger agents and collectors we used to ship by default.
```

- Easier repo config

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Gain insights about precise code navigation with enhanced code navigation analytics
Get a better understanding of precise navigation coverage and access precise code graph data configured for all of your repositories with the improved code navigation dashboard.
Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy
Tag by product: [Admin]
Documentation: provide a link to the documentation
@macraig
```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```Uncover developer time saved using Browser and IDE extensions
Admins can now understand the adoption and amount of time saved from using IDE and Browser extensions across your organization. Additionally, to make it faster and easier to roll out our VS Code extension organization-wide, we've created [an example Batch Change](https://github.com/sourcegraph/batch-change-examples/blob/main/js-ts/vscode-extension-recommendation/vscode-extension-recommendation.batch.yml) that adds the extension to your repository’s recommended extensions. Once added, users will be recommended the Sourcegraph extension when opening the repository if they don't have it installed already. We’ve also [updated our instructions](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/integration/browser_extension/how-tos/google_workspace) on how to automatically install our Browser extensions for users in your Google Workspace organization.
```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Uncover developer time saved using Browser and IDE extensions
Admins can now understand the adoption and amount of time saved from using IDE and Browser extensions across your organization. Additionally, to make it faster and easier to roll out our VS Code extension organization wide, we've created [an example Batch Change](https://github.com/sourcegraph/batch-change-examples/blob/main/js-ts/vscode-extension-recommendation/vscode-extension-recommendation.batch.yml) that adds the extension to your repository’s recommended extensions. Once added, users will be recommended the Sourcegraph extension when opening the repository if they don't have it installed already. We’ve also [updated our instructions](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/integration/browser_extension/how-tos/google_workspace) on how to automatically install our Browser extensions for users in your Google Workspace organization.
Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy
[Admin]
Documentation: add al ink to documentation when it's ready
```

- Simplify setup for end users.

<video loop autoPlay muted playsInline>
  <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/4.0/side-by-side.mp4" type="video/mp4" data-cookieconsent="ignore" />
</video>

This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run [Code Intelligence auto-indexing](#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs). If you're on cloud, one or more executors are available by default on your instance.

### See high-level aggregations of your search results set, to quickly answer questions about usage and structure

Sourcegraph returns an exhaustive list of search results – but sometimes you need to know things like: 

- Which files have the majority of these search results? 
- Which repos is this library used in most? 
- Which library components are used most? By who?
- What are all the possible arguments we pass to this function? 
- And a number of [other examples](TODO ADD LINK TO SEARCH AGGREGATIONS TEMPLATES DOC – coming by late August after we test live on the feature). 

> To answer these questions, you can choose to show your search results grouped by location (repo or file), author, and arbitrary capture group pattern. If you want to save any aggregations for future reference, you can 1-click save the results to a code insights dashboard.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To answer these questions, you can choose to show your search results grouped by location (repo or file), author, and arbitrary capture group pattern.
```

- Which files have the bulk of these search results?
- Which repositories is this library used in most?
- Which subcomponents are used most from this library?
- Who is using our new innersource library?
- Which areas of the code were added back in these regressions?
- What are all the possible arguments we can pass to this function?
- Aggregation can easily be reused by saving the visualization to your Code Insights dashboard.

Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

[Code Insights]

Docs: provide a link to the updated docs
### Configure precise code navigation for 9 languages in a matter of minutes with auto-indexing
Code navigation allows you to quickly jump to symbol definitions, find references, dependencies, and more, so you can spend more time shipping code. Precise code navigation is the most powerful version of code navigation and it works cross-repository. We now support 9 languages including Ruby, Rust, Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Python, TypeScript, JavaScript. Auto-indexing makes precise code navigation work across all of your code, automatically, and it’s turned on by default for our Cloud customers. 

> Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Media: [gif](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code-intelligence/4.0/ruby-precise.gif)
```
Added a Ruby example, should we add another gif for Rust or is only one visual allowed?

Reviewer 4: Happy to have you add a second video since there are two new languages.

[Code Navigation]

> Docs: provide a link to the updated docs	

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Docs: [Indexers page](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/references/indexers)
```

Get a better understanding of precise navigation coverage and access precise code graph data configured for all of your repositories with the improved code navigation dashboard.

Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

[Admin]

Docs: provide a link to the updated docs

### Uncover developer time saved using Browser and IDE extensions 
Admins can now understand the adoption and amount of time saved from using IDE and Browser extensions across your organization. Additionally, to make it faster and easier to roll out our VS Code extension organization wide, we've created an example Batch Change that adds the extension to your repository’s recommended extensions. Once added, users will be recommended the Sourcegraph extension when opening the repository if they don't have it installed already. We’ve also updated our instructions on how to automatically install our Browser extensions for users in your Google Workspace organization. 

Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

[Admin]

Docs: provide a link to the updated docs

### New version of the reference panel
TBD
Headline: [Do X] with [Z]

> Description: 2 - 4 sentences on the feature, functionality and benefits

Reviewer 3: We've introduced a new version of the reference panel for an improved code navigation experience. This new version stacks definitions and references in the same tab, has a brand new preview panel, and adds a filtering option for ease of navigation.

> Description: 2 - 4 sentences on the feature, functionality and benefits

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We've introduced a new version of the reference panel for an improved code navigation experience. This new version stacks definitions and references in the same tab, has a brand new preview panel, and adds a filtering option for ease of navigation.
```

> Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Media: [gif](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code-intelligence/find-references.gif)
```

Reviewer 11: Note we shouldn't use actual `.gif` files as they are very low quality and very large (take a long time to load). See the [handbook guidance](https://handbook.sourcegraph.com/departments/marketing/process/adding_screenshots_screen_recording/#:~:text=Do%20not%20actually%20use%20real%20GIF%20images.%20Record%20a%20GIF%2Dlike%20video%20and%20embed%20it%20in%20a%20way%20that%20it%20behaves%20like%20a%20GIF.)

Reviewer 3: Replaced with mp4

> [Admin]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Code Navigation]
```

> Docs: provide a link to the updated docs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Docs: [Find references](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/explanations/features#find-references)
```

I'm not sure if the doc link is worth sharing tbh, as it's basically an update to a very well known feature

published: false
heroImage: 
socialImage: 
changelogItems:
---

# Sourcegraph 4.0

> NOTE: This post is very WIP. It's a rough draft of what individual teams intend to ship.

- [From code search toward a code intelligence platform](/blog/code-search-to-code-intelligence) - the longer-term vision/story
- [Secure, easy, and scalable Sourcegraph Cloud managed instances for the enterprise](/blog/enterprise-cloud) - the Cloud announcement (including SOC2 Type 2, etc.) that coincides with 4.0

## TL;DR

`TODO(sqs): The section headers with emojis are what I think we should use, but the wording of the bullet points within are WIP`

##### 🌅 Code intelligence: more useful, more times daily for every dev

### A faster, simpler search experience 
We’ve improved the search UI to make the platform more intuitive with small usability improvements while making it easier for new users to get started with tips and recommendations on the revamped homepage. Performance across the platform saw a boost by using the latest in React, lazy loading, and priority rendering. These usability and performance enhancements help you get quick answers about your codebase and get unblocked faster. 

> Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

Reviewer 4: @benvenker please provide media and a link to docs when completed

- And a number of [other examples](TODO ADD LINK TO SEARCH AGGREGATIONS TEMPLATES DOC – coming by late August after we test live on the feature). 
- Aggregation can easily be reused by saving the visualization to your Code Insights dashboard.

To answer these questions, you can choose to show your search results grouped by location (repo or file), author, and arbitrary capture group pattern. 

Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

[Code Insights]

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/search_results_aggregations)

### Configure precise code navigation for 9 languages in a matter of minutes with auto-indexing
Code navigation allows you to quickly jump to symbol definitions, find references, dependencies, and more, so you can spend more time shipping code. Precise code navigation is the most powerful version of code navigation and it works cross-repository. We now support 9 languages including Ruby, Rust, Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Python, TypeScript, JavaScript. Auto-indexing makes precise code navigation work across all of your code, automatically, and it’s turned on by default for our Cloud customers. 

<Video 
  source={{

>     webm: 'https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/ruby-precise.webm',
>     mp4: 'https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/ruby-precise.mp4'

Reviewer 12: There's a syntax error here according to [the docs](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/starter-pack#:~:text=Then%2C%20add%20the%20file%20path%20starting%20after%20/sourcegraph%2Dassets/%20from%20the%20Public%20URL%20of%20these%20files%20to%20the%20source%20property%20under%20mp4%20and%20webm%20respectively%2C%20without%20the%20file%20extensions.). The sources should be written as:

```suggestion
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/ruby-precise',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/ruby-precise'
```

Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

[Code Search]

Docs: provide a link to the updated docs

- Smarter code search
### Understand usage and search structure with high-level aggregations of search results
High-level aggregations of search results powered by Code Insights are now displayed in addition to results. Responses to the query are now grouped by location (repo or file), author, and arbitrary capture group pattern to help answer to questions such as:

- Which files have the bulk of these search results?
- Which repositories is this library used in most?
- Which subcomponents are used most from this library?
- Who is using our new innersource library?
- Which areas of the code were added back in these regressions?
- What are all the possible arguments we can pass to this function?
- Aggregation can easily be reused by saving the visualization to your Code Insights dashboard.

Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

[Code Insights]

> Docs: provide a link to the updated docs

Reviewer 4: @Joelkw please provide media and a link to updated docs when ready

Reviewer 5: Docs are at: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/search_results_aggregations

I'm also working on an 'example use cases' doc I'd like to link, but that won't be ready until after cancun. 

And here is a video (since we aren't using gifs) we can use for the image: https://www.loom.com/share/83e156c214da415bb1f8726afea5fe00

Reviewer 5: (edit, updated video link to correct one) https://www.loom.com/share/0e6c5f893b374fe8b960ee4cd353f746

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.0"
publishDate: 2022-09-27T10:00-07:00
description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.0"
published: true
heroImage: 
socialImage: 
changelogItems:
---

Sourcegraph 4.0, the latest version of our code intelligence platform, is now available. It includes more than 12 new features and enhancements to help you spend more time in flow and less time manually grokking your codebase. 

> Our code intelligence platform semantically indexes and analyzes code and its underlying structure to help you derive knowledge from the codebase. It provides devs and engineering leaders with a complete understanding of the codebase to make faster and better decisions. Our platform enables anyone who creates or interacts with code to save time by helping you understand, fix, and automate changes across your entire codebase.

Reviewer 8: @lcolston08 - Please align this with the description of code intelligence from Quinn's blog post. We should be able to pull key parts directly from Quinn's blog. CC @iskyOS

Read on to discover more details about the improvement with Sourcegraph 4.0.  

# 🌅 Code intelligence platform for everyday use

<Badge text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("/code-search", "_self")} />

### A faster, simpler search experience 

> The search interface has been streamlined and simplified to help make the platform more intuitive. It’s easier than ever for you to get started with real data on the homepage from your instance including repository names, file names, and authors. These details, along with contextual tips and recommendations, help you uncover necessary information to run a successful search query, faster. 

Reviewer 8: @lcolston08 - please use active voice throughout.  EG "We simplified the search user interface to make the platform more intuitive."

> The search interface has been streamlined and simplified to help make the platform more intuitive. It’s easier than ever for you to get started with real data on the homepage from your instance including repository names, file names, and authors. These details, along with contextual tips and recommendations, help you uncover necessary information to run a successful search query, faster. 

Reviewer 8: "The search homepage now includes contextual tips and recommendations using real data from your instance, including.....This information makes it easier than ever run a successful search query, faster."

> Search results are now front and center with the improved interface. The search sidebar has moved to the right of the screen and several non-essential elements have been removed to ensure the information you’re looking for is easy to access. Filters make it easier and faster for you to extract the answer you need, and the side bar can be collapsed altogether to reduce noise. 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
Search results are now front and center with the improved interface. The search sidebar is now on the right side of the screen and we removed several non-essential elements to ensure the information you need is easy to access. Filters make it easier and faster for you to answer questions about your code, and the sidebar can be collapsed altogether to reduce noise. 
```

Reviewer 8: Active voice

> Performance across the platform saw a boost and search results are now returned faster than before by using the latest in React, lazy loading, and priority rendering. 

Reviewer 8: @lcolston08 - what type of performance boost? Faster search results? Load time? Please add specifics and use active voice.

Reviewer 4: Thanks - This is still unclear and I don't have the answer yet. Maria is unaware and so is Eugenia. It's unclear with Ben's departure.

![UI Improvements](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Search%20UI%20Improvements.png "UI Improvements")

<Badge text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("/code-search", "_self")} />

### Understand usage and search structure with high-level aggregations of search results

> It’s now easier for you to derive knowledge from the codebase and get answers to your questions with high-level aggregations of search results powered by Code Insights. You can choose to group your search results by location (repo or file), author, and arbitrary capture group pattern, and a graph with the information is displayed from within the search results page. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
It’s now easier for you to get high-level knowledge from the codebase and answer questions with aggregations of search results powered by Code Insights. In the chart that appears on the search results page, you can choose to group your search results by location (repo or file), author, or arbitrary capture group pattern.
```

(Shortening, adding precision)

> The new aggregations help to answer:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The new aggregations help to answer:
- How many different versions of a library or package are present in your code, and which is most common? 
```

- Which files have the majority of these search results?
- Which repositories is this library used in most?
- Which library components are used most? By who?
- What are all the possible arguments we pass to this function? 

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

Here are some [example search aggregations to get started with](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/references/search_aggregations_use_cases)

```

Reviewer 5: I think we should include a link to this sort of example doc in addition to the overall doc

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.0"
publishDate: 2022-09-27T10:00-07:00
description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.0"
published: true
heroImage: 
socialImage: 
changelogItems:
---

Sourcegraph 4.0, the latest version of our code intelligence platform, is now available. It includes more than 12 new features and enhancements to help you spend more time in flow and less time manually grokking your codebase. 

Our code intelligence platform semantically indexes and analyzes code and its underlying structure to help you derive knowledge from the codebase. It provides devs and engineering leaders with a complete understanding of the codebase to make faster and better decisions. Our platform enables anyone who creates or interacts with code to save time by helping you understand, fix, and automate changes across your entire codebase.

> Read on to discover more details about the improvement with Sourcegraph 4.0.  

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
Read on to discover everything that shipped in Sourcegraph 4.0.  
```

### 🌅 Code intelligence: more useful, more times daily for every dev

> <Badge text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("/code-search", "_self")} />

Reviewer 11: Using an `onClick` JavaScript handler is not accessible to screen reader users and prevents things like opening in a new tab. It should be a semantic link (`<a>`).

I think this should work but if not @sourcegraph/content-platform should be able to help:
```suggestion
<a href="/code-search"><Badge text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" /></a>
```

Same for the other badges.

Search results are now front and center with the improved interface. The search sidebar has moved to the right of the screen and several non-essential elements have been removed to ensure the information you’re looking for is easy to access. Filters make it easier and faster for you to extract the answer you need, and the side bar can be collapsed altogether to reduce noise. 

Performance across the platform saw a boost and search results are now returned faster than before by using the latest in React, lazy loading, and priority rendering. 

![UI Improvements](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Search%20UI%20Improvements.png "UI Improvements")

<Badge text="Code Insights" color="green" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("/code-insights", "_self")} />

#### Understand usage and search structure with high-level aggregations of search results

> It’s now easier for you to get high-level knowledge from the codebase and answer questions with aggregations of search results powered by Code Insights. In the chart that appears on the search results page, you can choose to group your search results by location (repo or file), author, or arbitrary capture group pattern.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
[Code Insights](https://about.sourcegraph.com/code-insights) turns your code into a queryable database to create customizable, visual dashboards. We're bringing the power of Code Insights directly into the search UI to surface high-level information about your code, help you answer questions about your code, and refine your search results.  

Search aggregation charts appear on the search results page to help you answer questions, like:
- How many different versions of a library or package are present in your code, and which is most common? 
- Which files have the majority of these search results?
- Which repositories are this library used in most?
- Which library components are used most? By who?
- What are all the possible arguments we pass to this function? 

 You can choose to group your search results by location (repo or file), author, or arbitrary capture group pattern.
 
Here are some [example search aggregations to get started with](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/references/search_aggregations_use_cases)
```

The new aggregations answer:
- How many different versions of a library or package are present in your code, and which is most common? 
- Which files have the majority of these search results?
- Which repositories is this library used in most?
- Which library components are used most? By who?
- What are all the possible arguments we pass to this function? 

Here are some [example search aggregations to get started with](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/references/search_aggregations_use_cases)

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Search_Aggregations_4.0',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Search_Aggregations_4.0'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="High-level aggregations"
  caption="High-level aggregations of search results"
/>

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/search_results_aggregations)

> #### Configure precise code navigation for 9 languages in a matter of minutes with auto-indexing

Reviewer 8: @iskyOS - can you please review auto-indexing. Do you think it's worth mentioning code graph data?

Author: Reviewed and commented below! 

I think we can mention code graph data in the spot below, but not everyone in the audience will recognize it. We could link to the docs there too: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/explanations/uploads

Reviewer 4: The url has been added

Code navigation allows you to quickly jump to symbol definitions, find references, dependencies, and more, so you can spend more time shipping code. Precise code navigation is the most powerful version of code navigation and it works cross-repository. Auto-indexing allows you to set up precise code navigation for any chosen repositories with the click of a button, and it makes precise code navigation work across all of your code, automatically. Auto-indexing is supported for 9 languages including Ruby, Rust, Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Python, TypeScript, JavaScript, and it is turned on by default for our Cloud customers.

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/ruby-precise',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/ruby-precise'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Ruby precise code navigation"
  caption="Precise code navigation with Ruby"
/>

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/references/indexers)

[Extensions]

> #### Your favorite extensions are now available by default 

Reviewer 8: @lcolston08 - It's a bit confusing what is changing. What does default functionality mean? This paragraph jumps from idea to idea.

I think it'll help to follow the flow of the deprecation blog post.

Reviewer 4: This has been updated if you could please review.

Reviewer 4: Ok - this has been updated and I added the statement about the changes to the browser extensions. I also change the "Please not that this does not impact" to "This update does not impact..." since we use "Note:" in the statement above it.

- Which files have the bulk of these search results?
- Which repositories is this library used in most?
- Which subcomponents are used most from this library?
- Who is using our new innersource library?
- Which areas of the code were added back in these regressions?
- What are all the possible arguments we can pass to this function?
- Aggregation can easily be reused by saving the visualization to your Code Insights dashboard.

Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

[Code Insights]

Docs: provide a link to the updated docs
### Configure precise code navigation for 9 languages in a matter of minutes with auto-indexing
Code navigation allows you to quickly jump to symbol definitions, find references, dependencies, and more, so you can spend more time shipping code. Precise code navigation is the most powerful version of code navigation and it works cross-repository. We now support 9 languages including Ruby, Rust, Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Python, TypeScript, JavaScript. Auto-indexing makes precise code navigation work across all of your code, automatically, and it’s turned on by default for our Cloud customers. 

> Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

Reviewer 4: @macraig please provide media and a link to updated docs when they're available.

#### A faster, simpler search experience 
We streamlined and simplified the search user interface to make the platform more intuitive. The search homepage now includes contextual tips and recommendations using real data from your instance, including repository names, file names, and authors. This information makes it easier than ever run a successful search query, faster.

Search results are now front and center with the improved interface. The search sidebar is now on the right side of the screen and we removed several non-essential elements to ensure the information you need is easy to access. Filters make it easier and faster for you to answer questions about your code, and the sidebar can be collapsed altogether to reduce noise. 

TODO: Search results are returned faster with our performance improvements using the latest in React, lazy loading, and priority rendering.

![UI Improvements](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Search%20UI%20Improvements.png "UI Improvements")

<Badge text="Code Insights" color="green" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("/code-insights", "_self")} />

> #### Understand usage and search structure with high-level aggregations of search results

Reviewer 4: I'm good with it since Code Insights powers these aggregations.

we’re investing in a new model for integrations that will support deeper integrations with our code intelligence platform and make it easier to surface code context during the ideal moments in your workflow. Top used extensions, including code navigation, git-extras, open-in-editor, and search-exports, are now part of the core functionality. 

By default, you won't be able to access the extensions registry to use or enable extensions, and you will no longer be able to create extensions on a private registry. Note: if you still need access to extensions or create extensions on a private registry, you can enable a feature flag to do so until early 2023.

Please note that this *does not* impact our IDE extensions, which will continue to allow you to search and navigate across all of your repositories without ever leaving your IDE or checking them out locally

![Git Blame](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/git_blame.png "Git Blame")

<Badge text="Code navigation" color="lemon" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("/code-search, "_self")} />

#### Quickly access answers within your codebase with a revamped reference panel 

> We've enhanced the code navigation experience with a new version of the reference panel. Updates include a new preview panel, the conslidation of definitions and references in the same tab, and allows for easier navigation through filters.

Reviewer 4: Asking @macraig on this since I'm unaware. Good points.

> We've enhanced the code navigation experience with a new version of the reference panel. Updates include a new preview panel, the conslidation of definitions and references in the same tab, and allows for easier navigation through filters.

Reviewer 3: - What is new about the preview panel - and how it helps
We didn't have a preview panel before, so every time you clicked on a reference the user would be immediately taken to the reference's file. Now you can navigate references with the preview panel without leaving the file you were originally looking at. You can choose to jump to a reference, but it's optional. Most of the time you're navigating code you just want to take a peek, the preview panel makes that possible without leaving the current file location.

- What it means to consolidate definitions and references - and why this matters
Before, definitions and references were located in different tabs. As the number of definitions is typically 1, it also felt like a bit of unused space. We now present both of them (and implementations) in the same tab by stacking them, which reduces the number of tabs needed and also promotes ease of navigation (scrolling instead of clicking tabs).

- What's new about the filters that make it easier to navigate
We didn't have any form of filtering in the old reference panel. This meant that you had to scroll down to find the reference you were looking for, which didn't scale for symbols that had a large number of results. Users can now easily filter results by file name and find the references they are looking for much faster.

![Reference panel revamp](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Reference%20Panel%20Image.png "Refernce panel revamp")

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/explanations/features#find-references)

### 🏗️ High-leverage ways to improve your entire codebase

<Badge text="Batch Changes" color="blue" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("/batch-changes", "_self")} />

#### Make changes across all of your codebases at enterprise scale with server-side Batch Changes (beta)

> Batch Changes allows you to programmatically define changes across the codebase with a single declarative file. Now, changes can be run across thousands of repositories with a better development experience. Previously, you had to run src-cli locally to create batch changes, which could take an impractical amount of time or be brittle for large or resource-intensive batch changes. By running Batch Changes server-side you can:

Reviewer 4: The challenge is that our description of what Batch Changes allows you (make changes across all repos) wasn't in fact true until we introduced server-side Batch Changes. I like the proposal of the challenge before. I'll incorporate that.

- Run large-scale or resource-intensive batch changes without clogging your local machine
- Run large batch changes quickly by distributing them across an autoscaled pool of compute instances
- Get a better debugging experience with the streaming of logs directly into Sourcegraph.

> This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run [Code Intelligence auto-indexing](https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/blob/bf341aafde75450c295aaec064470017020cdcd8/content/blogposts/2022/sourcegraph-4.0.md#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs) as well. One or more executors are available by default on Cloud instances of Sourcegraph.

Reviewer 4: This has been incorproated.

> This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run [Code Intelligence auto-indexing](https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/blob/bf341aafde75450c295aaec064470017020cdcd8/content/blogposts/2022/sourcegraph-4.0.md#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs) as well. One or more executors are available by default on Cloud instances of Sourcegraph.

Reviewer 4: Deleting because the lines were updated with some other changes.

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Batch_Changes_Side_by_Side',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Batch_Changes_Side_by_Side'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Server-side Batch Changes"
  caption="Side by side comparison of deploying Batch Changes locally vs. server-side"
/>

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/server_side)

> ### ☁️ Dedicated Sourcegraph Cloud instances for enterprise

Reviewer 8: @lcolston08 @iskyOS - align this with the Cloud blog post

Reviewer 4: Updated with copy from the Cloud blog post. @iskyOS could you please take a look?

Author: Added suggestion for one typo but looks great!

Reviewer 4: Icorporated. Thanks!

> ### ☁️ Dedicated Sourcegraph Cloud instances for enterprise

Reviewer 8: @lcolston08 - Do you think it makes sense to add SOC 2 Type 2 in this section?

Reviewer 4: Yes, adding now.

Reviewer 4: Please have a look @abschu

<Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("URL_GOES_HERE", "_self")} />

> #### Get started with Sourcegraph faster than ever

Reviewer 8: @lcolston08 @iskyOS - We can mention speed, but we should focus on language that highlights the absolute benefits of single-tenant Cloud: dedicated, isolated, secure, etc.

https://handbook.sourcegraph.com/company-info-and-process/communication/content_guidelines/style_and_mechanics/#sourcegraph-cloud

After many years of building Sourcegraph into a secure and highly-scalable solution, we're ready to bring it to the cloud. Sourcegraph Cloud now offers dedicated, single-tenant instances of Sourcegraph, making it easier than ever for new teams to get started. You can read more in our announcement blog here[/blog/enterprise-cloud].

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/cloud)

### 💖 Advanced admin capabilities

<Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("URL_GOES_HERE", "_self")} />

> #### Save time upgrading to Sourcegraph 4.0 with multi-version upgrades

Reviewer 8: This phrasing is a bit confusing "help to reduce the burden and time required." Be direct about the improvement:

Sourcegraph 4.0 supports multi-version upgrades so you can upgrade to 4.0 directly from version 3.20 or higher. 

We can then explain why this is important + link to instructions for upgrading to 4.0.

Reviewer 4: Asking @macraig  - will update once I hear back. Good points.

Reviewer 4: Updated. Each section has documentation, and this section links to the docs for multi-version upgrades.

Multi-version upgrades help to reduce the burden and time required to upgrade to the latest version of Sourcegraph. Customers will now be able to seamlessly upgrade from any 3.20+ version to Sourcegraph 4.0 in just a few simple steps. With faster upgrades, customers can quickly start using the new features and enhancements that are released every month. 

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Multi-version%20Upgrades',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Multi-version%20Upgrades'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Multi-version upgrades"
  caption="Demo of multi-version upgrades"
/>

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrades)

<Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("URL_GOES_HERE", "_self")} />

> #### View usage and measure the value of our platform with new and enhanced in-product analytics

Reviewer 8: @lcolston08 - should we lead with this in the advanced admin capabilities section?

Reviewer 4: I moved it around so that we lead with multi-version updates since it seems like this post is most relevant to existing customers and we've already introduced in-product analytics with a recent blog post.

> Our new analytics, introduced with version 3.42, make it easier for admins to understand user engagement, measure efficiency in terms of time saved, and help calculate the value of utilizing Sourcegraph and its features. In-product analytics now include ROI-based metrics such as projected value and dev-time-saved for all Sourcegraph features, and individual user usage. Admins can access the analytics, configure the date range from one week to three months, and export the details. 

Reviewer 8: I don't think we need to reference when this was introduced. Think of this as the introduction of in-product analytics. We should also highlight use cases + features (it works with every part of the product, its customizable, etc.). We can pull from the blog.

![In-product anlaytics](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Search.png "In-product analytics")

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/analytics)

<Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("URL_GOES_HERE", "_self")} />

> #### Uncover developer time saved using Browser and IDE extensions 

Reviewer 8: @lcolston08 - should this be part of in-product analytics?

![Browser and IDE extensions analytics](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Browser.png "Browser and IDE extensions analytics")

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/analytics)

<Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("URL_GOES_HERE", "_self")} />

#### Easily export traces using OpenTelemetry

[OpenTelemetry (OTEL)](https://opentelemetry.io/) is an open specification for exporting observability data into a user’s preferred systems. We aim to make OpenTelmetry the default way to quickly and easily export observability data from Sourcgraph, starting with tracing in Sourcegraph 4.0. This is a breaking change since we now require customers to export tracing using the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/), which will now be deployed by default in all Sourcegraph deployment methods, replacing the Jaeger agents and collectors we used to ship by default.

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/observability/opentelemetry)

<Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("URL_GOES_HERE", "_self")} />

> #### Quickly see the status on your repository and permissions syncing

Reviewer 8: @lcolston08 - this update is a bit repetitive/vague. Instead of saying "we added many quality of life improvements," we should share what we specifically improved.

Reviewer 4: @ryphil Could you please provide more details on what exactly we updated?

With Sourcegraph 4.0, we have introduced many quality of life improvements to help admins understand the current state of repository and permissions syncing. These improvements make it easier for admins to understand the current state of repositories synced with Sourcegraph as well as understand syncing errors when they arise. 

![Repository Status](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Repository%20Status%20Image.png "Repository Status")

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/external_service)

<Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("URL_GOES_HERE", "_self")} />

> #### Gain knowledge about precise code navigation with improved analytics

Reviewer 8: @lcolston08 - is this in-product analytics? If so, please incorporate into the main section above.

Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

[Code Navigation]

Docs: provide a link to the updated docs	

### Access code context while staying within the developer workflow 
Top used extensions, including code navigation, git-extras, open-in-editor, and search-exports, are now part of the core functionality. These enhancements provide developers code context while staying in the flow within their preferred tools. Additionally, the current Sourcegraph extensions framework will be deprecated so that we can make way for a new model that allows a deeper integration throughout our entire code intelligence platform. Please note, these changes do not impact our IDE extensions. 

Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

[Integrations]

> Docs: provide a link to the updated docs	

Reviewer 4: @ryankscott Please provide appropriate media and a link to the updated docs when they're available.

Read on to discover everything that shipped in Sourcegraph 4.0.  

### 🌅 Code intelligence: more useful, more times daily for every dev

<Badge text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" onClick={() => window.open("/code-search", "_self")} />

#### A faster, simpler search experience 
We streamlined and simplified the search user interface to make the platform more intuitive. The search homepage now includes contextual tips and recommendations using real data from your instance, including repository names, file names, and authors. This information makes it easier than ever run a successful search query, faster.

Search results are now front and center with the improved interface. The search sidebar is now on the right side of the screen and we removed several non-essential elements to ensure the information you need is easy to access. Filters make it easier and faster for you to answer questions about your code, and the sidebar can be collapsed altogether to reduce noise. 

> TODO: Search results are returned faster with our performance improvements using the latest in React, lazy loading, and priority rendering.

Reviewer 4: @taylorsperry could you please provide more information here on what the value is - faster load time, faster search query results, etc?

Batch Changes can now run across thousands of repositories with a better development experience. Previously, you had to run src-cli locally to create batch changes. That could take an impractical amount of time or be brittle for large or resource-intensive batch changes. By running Batch Changes server-side you can:

- Run large-scale or resource-intensive batch changes without clogging your local machine
- Run large batch changes quickly by distributing them across an autoscaled pool of compute instances
- Get a better debugging experience with the streaming of logs directly into Sourcegraph.

This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run [Code Intelligence auto-indexing](https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/blob/bf341aafde75450c295aaec064470017020cdcd8/content/blogposts/2022/sourcegraph-4.0.md#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs) as well. One or more executors are available by default on Cloud instances of Sourcegraph.

[Batch Changes]

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/server_side)

> - New packaging updates

Reviewer 4: @abschu Let's chat about what you want to include for the new pricing and packaging

- Run large batch changes quickly by distributing them across an autoscaled pool of compute instances
- Get a better debugging experience with the streaming of logs directly into Sourcegraph.

This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run [Code Intelligence auto-indexing](https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/blob/bf341aafde75450c295aaec064470017020cdcd8/content/blogposts/2022/sourcegraph-4.0.md#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs) as well. One or more executors are available by default on Cloud instances of Sourcegraph.

[Batch Changes]

[Docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/server_side)

- New packaging updates

##### ☁️ Enterprise Cloud dedicated(/managed?) instances

- [Secure, easy, and scalable Sourcegraph Cloud dedicated(/managed?) instances for the enterprise](/blog/enterprise-cloud)

Headline: [Do X] with [Z]
Description: 2 - 4 sentences on the feature, functionality and benefits
Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy
Tag by product: [Code Search], [Batch Changes], [Code Navigation], [Code Insights], [Admin]

> Docs: provide a link to the updated docs

Reviewer 4: @iskyOS seciont to be competed for Cloud

Author: Since there is only one sub-section under this "Cloud" section, do we want a second headline?

- New packaging updates

##### ☁️ Enterprise Cloud dedicated(/managed?) instances

- [Secure, easy, and scalable Sourcegraph Cloud dedicated(/managed?) instances for the enterprise](/blog/enterprise-cloud)

Headline: [Do X] with [Z]
Description: 2 - 4 sentences on the feature, functionality and benefits
Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy
Tag by product: [Code Search], [Batch Changes], [Code Navigation], [Code Insights], [Admin]
Docs: provide a link to the updated docs

##### 💖 For admins

### Get a deep understanding of usage and measure the value of our platform with new and enhanced in-product analytics
With 3.42, we introduced an all-new analytics including [XYZ]. Our new analytics make it easier for admins to understand user engagement, measure efficiency in terms of time saved, and help calculate the value of utilizing Sourcegraph and its features. We’ve significantly improved our in-product analytics to include the projected value and dev-time-saved for all Sourcegraph features, the ability to export data, individual user usage table, and much more. 

Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

[Admin]

> Docs: provide a link to the updated docs

Reviewer 4: @ryphil to be completed with the new analytics that were added in 3.42, media and a link to the updated docs

Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

[Admin]

Docs: provide a link to the updated docs
- 1-click log export - at risk for 4.0 relase
- Easily export traces using OpenTelemetry

[OpenTelemetry (OTEL)](https://opentelemetry.io/) is an open specification for exporting observability data into a user’s preferred systems. We aim to make OpenTelmetry the default way to quickly and easily export observability data from Sourcgraph, starting with tracing in Sourcegraph 4.0. This is a breaking change since we now require customers to export tracing using the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/), which will now be deployed by default in all Sourcegraph deployment methods, replacing the Jaeger agents and collectors we used to ship by default.
[Admin]

> Documentation: provide a link to the documentation

Reviewer 4: @quinnhare placeholder for docs when they're ready.

Reviewer 13: @lcolston08 https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/observability/opentelemetry

Search results are now front and center with the improved interface. The search sidebar has moved to the right side of the screen, and we eliminated several non-essential elements to ensure the information you need is obvious to access. Filters make it effortless for you to answer questions about your code, and the sidebar can be collapsed altogether to reduce noise. 

Major performance improvements make rendering search results, files and blobs, and repository pages faster than ever.

![UI Improvements](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Search%20UI%20Improvements.png "UI Improvements")

<a href="/code-search"><Badge text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" /></a>

#### Configure precise code navigation for 9 languages in a matter of minutes with auto-indexing
Code navigation allows you to quickly jump to symbol definitions, find references, dependencies, and more, so you can spend more time shipping code. Precise code navigation is the most powerful version of code navigation and it works cross-repository. 

> Auto-indexing allows you to set up precise code navigation for any chosen repositories with the click of a button, and it makes precise code navigation work across all of your code, automatically. Auto-indexing is now supported for 9 languages including Ruby, Rust, Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Python, TypeScript, JavaScript, and with the release of 4.0, it's turned on by default for our Cloud customers.

Author: This sounds a little like it gives you precise code nav out-of-the-box, but you do have to turn it on per-repo:
"...and it makes precise code navigation work across all of your code, automatically."

Author: ```suggestion
Auto-indexing allows you to set up precise code navigation for any chosen repositories with the click of a button, and it automatically keeps your repositories indexed and your code graph data up-to-date for accurate code navigation. Auto-indexing is now supported for 9 languages including Ruby, Rust, Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Python, TypeScript, JavaScript, and with the release of 4.0, it's turned on by default for our Cloud customers.
```

Here's an alt you can consider @lcolston08  that also mentions code graph data (which may be too technical / unfamiliar for the audience; I'm on the fence for it)

Media: provide a screenshot, gif, or video to help support the copy

[Admin]

Docs: provide a link to the updated docs

- 1-click log export - at risk for 4.0 relase

### Easily export traces using OpenTelemetry

[OpenTelemetry (OTEL)](https://opentelemetry.io/) is an open specification for exporting observability data into a user’s preferred systems. We aim to make OpenTelmetry the default way to quickly and easily export observability data from Sourcgraph, starting with tracing in Sourcegraph 4.0. This is a breaking change since we now require customers to export tracing using the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/), which will now be deployed by default in all Sourcegraph deployment methods, replacing the Jaeger agents and collectors we used to ship by default.
[Admin]
Docs: provide a link to the updated docs

> ### Quickly and easily get the status on your repository and sync permissions

Reviewer 4: @ryphil looking for some help filling out the details here on what has been enhanced and the benefits.

This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run [code navigation auto-indexing](https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/blob/bf341aafde75450c295aaec064470017020cdcd8/content/blogposts/2022/sourcegraph-4.0.md#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs) as well. All Sourcegraph Cloud instance have one or more executors available by default. 

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Batch_Changes_Side_by_Side',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Batch_Changes_Side_by_Side'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Server-side Batch Changes"
  caption="Side by side comparison of deploying Batch Changes locally vs. server-side"
/>

 <a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/server_side" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">
      <p className="tw-m-0 tw-mr-2">Docs</p>
      <OpenInNewIcon className="tw-inline" size={18} />
  </a>

### ☁️ Dedicated Sourcegraph Cloud instances for enterprise

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/cloud"><Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" /></a>

> #### Scale confidently with a dedicate and secure instance of Sourcegraph Cloud

Author: ```suggestion
#### Scale confidently with a dedicated and secure instance of Sourcegraph Cloud
```

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.0"
publishDate: 2022-09-27T10:00-07:00
description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.0"
published: true
heroImage: 
socialImage: 
changelogItems:
---

Sourcegraph 4.0, the latest version of our code intelligence platform, is now available. Our code intelligence platform includes a dozen new features to grok code, spend more time in flow, and execute big decisive refactors across your codebase.

A code intelligence platform indexes and understands all of your organization's code, no matter where it's stored or what language it's in. With Sourcegraph, devs and engineering leaders have a complete understanding of their codebase, so they can learn about code and operate more efficiently. 

Read on to discover everything that shipped in Sourcegraph 4.0.  

### 🧠 Code intelligence: uplevel your code search

<br />
<a href="/code-insights"><Badge text="Code Insights" color="green" size="small" /></a>

> #### Understand usage and search structure with Code Insights dashboards within the search UI

Reviewer 4: @Joelkw Could you please review this by EOD today to ensure the content is accurate? Please keep in mind that we're focusing on the benefits and value to our customers/prospects within this release post.

- Which files have the majority of these search results?
- Which repositories are this library used in most?
- Which library components are used most? By who?
- What are all the possible arguments we pass to this function? 

You can choose to group your search results by location (repo or file), author, or arbitrary capture group pattern. Here are some [example search aggregations to get started with.](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/references/search_aggregations_use_cases)

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Search_Aggregations_4.0',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Search_Aggregations_4.0'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="High-level aggregations"
  caption="The power of Code Insights is now within the search UI to surface usage patterns about your code"
/>
<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/search_results_aggregations" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>
  
<br />
<a href="/code-search"><Badge text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" /></a>

> #### A faster, simpler search experience 

Reviewer 4: @limitedmage Could you please review this section by EOD - keep in mind this is for accuracy and that we're focusing on the value to our customers.

Reviewer 4: This has been reviewed by Juliana and the edits have been incorporated.

We streamlined and simplified the search user interface to make the platform more intuitive. The search homepage now has contextual tips and recommendations using real data from your instance, including repository names, file names, and authors. This information makes it easier and faster than ever to run a successful search query. 

Search results are now front and center with the improved interface. The search sidebar has moved to the right side of the screen, and we eliminated several non-essential elements to ensure the information you need is easy to access. Filters make it effortless for you to answer questions about your code, and the sidebar can be collapsed altogether to reduce noise. 

Major performance improvements make rendering search results, files and blobs, and repository pages faster than ever.

<div className="tw-mb-sm">
  <Figure
    src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/New-Search-UI.png"
    alt="UI Improvements"
  />
</div>

<br />
<a href="/code-search"><Badge text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" /></a>

> #### Configure precise code navigation for 9 languages in a matter of minutes with auto-indexing

Reviewer 4: @macraig you please review this by EOD today to ensure the content is accurate? Please keep in mind that we're focusing on the benefits and value to our customers/prospects within this release post.

Reviewer 3: @lcolston08 +1 to @abschu 's suggestions below, otherwise LGTM

Reviewer 4: Great. Thanks. The feedback has been incorporated.

> Code navigation allows you to quickly jump to symbol definitions, find references, dependencies, and more, so you can spend more time shipping code. Precise code navigation is the most powerful version of code navigation and it works cross-repository. 

Reviewer 4: updated

Auto-indexing allows you to set up precise code navigation for any chosen repositories with the click of a button, and it automatically keeps your repositories indexed and your [code graph data](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/explanations/uploads) up-to-date for accurate code navigation. With the release of 4.0, auto-indexing is now supported for 9 languages including Ruby, Rust, Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Python, TypeScript, JavaScript, and it's turned on by default for our Cloud customers.

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Auto-Indexing%20and%20Code%20Navigation',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Auto-Indexing%20and%20Code%20Navigation'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Ruby precise code navigation"
  caption="Auto-indexing is now supported for 9 languages and allows you to set up precise code navigation, automatically"
/>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/references/indexers" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

<br />
<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/integration"><Badge text="Extensions" color="vermillion" size="small" /></a>

> #### Your favorite extensions are now available by default 

Reviewer 4: @ryankscott you please review this by EOD today to ensure the content is accurate? Please keep in mind that we're focusing on the benefits and value to our customers/prospects within this release post.

Reviewer 4: Thanks. I saw you made an update. I'm resolving this comment.

Now that our top extensions are part of the core functionality, there will be greater support and functionality over time. With this change, you will no longer be able to access the extensions registry or create extensions on a private registry. Note: if you still need access to extensions or create extensions on a private registry, you can enable a feature flag to do so until early 2023.

This update *does not* impact our IDE extensions, which will continue to allow you to search and navigate across all of your repositories without ever leaving your IDE or checking them out locally.

<div className="tw-mb-sm">
  <Figure
    src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Blame.png"
    alt="Git Blame"
  />
</div>

<br />
<a href="/code-search"><Badge text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" /></a>

> #### Quickly access answers within your codebase with a revamped reference panel 

Reviewer 4: @macraig you please review this by EOD today to ensure the content is accurate? Please keep in mind that we're focusing on the benefits and value to our customers/prospects within this release post.

Reviewer 3: LGTM, my only nitpick is that "quickly access answers" sounds a bit weird. "Quickly get answers"? or "Find answers faster"?

Reviewer 4: Thanks! Updated to Find answers faster with a revamped referenced panel

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Reference%20panel',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Reference%20panel'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Reference panel refresh"
  caption="Stay within your workflow and quickly access references with the revamped reference panel"
/>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/explanations/features#find-references" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

### 🏗️ High-leverage ways to improve your entire codebase
<br />
<a href="/batch-changes"><Badge text="Batch Changes" color="blue" size="small" /></a>

> #### Make changes across your codebase at enterprise scale with server-side Batch Changes (beta)

Reviewer 4: @malomarrec you please review this by EOD today to ensure the content is accurate? Please keep in mind that we're focusing on the benefits and value to our customers/prospects within this release post.

> #### Make changes across your codebase at enterprise scale with server-side Batch Changes (beta)

Reviewer 4: Yes, that might have gotten dropped in a revision. Sorry about that.

- Get a better debugging experience by streaming logs directly into Sourcegraph

This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run [code navigation auto-indexing](https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/blob/bf341aafde75450c295aaec064470017020cdcd8/content/blogposts/2022/sourcegraph-4.0.md#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs). All Sourcegraph Cloud instances have one or more executors available by default. 

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Server%20Side%20Batch%20Changes%20',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Server%20Side%20Batch%20Changes%20'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Server-side Batch Changes"
  caption="Large-scale changes can be run across thousands of repositories with server-side Batch Changes"
/>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/server_side" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

### ☁️ Dedicated Sourcegraph Cloud instances for enterprise

<br />
<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/cloud"><Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" /></a>

> #### Scale confidently with a dedicated and secure instance of Sourcegraph Cloud

Reviewer 4: @iskyOS & @malomarrec you please review this by EOD today to ensure the content is accurate? Please keep in mind that we're focusing on the benefits and value to our customers/prospects within this release post.

After almost a decade of developing self-hosted Sourcegraph, we’ve gained the trust of some of the most sophisticated companies and development teams in the world, allowing us to work with their most sensitive IP: their code. Today—after years of building trust and engineering rigor—we are excited to move confidently to the Cloud with a highly secure and scalable solution.

Dedicated, single-tenant Sourcegraph Cloud instances are now generally available, and the best way for new teams to use Sourcegraph. You can read more in our announcement blog here[/blog/enterprise-cloud].

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/cloud" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>
  
<br />
<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/cloud"><Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" /></a>

> #### SOC 2 Type II certification for Sourcegraph Cloud

Reviewer 4: @doragrgic you please review this by EOD today to ensure the content is accurate? Please keep in mind that we're focusing on the benefits and value to our customers/prospects within this release post.

Reviewer 4: I saw Dora reviewed and pushed a minor update. Resolving this comment.

Sourcegraph continues our commitment to the security of your most valuable IP—your code—through our security operations, compliance measures, and best practices. With our recent SOC 2 Type II attestation for Soucegraph Cloud, we met the high standards of the third-party audit, and you can be confident that Sourcegraph controls for the security and availability of your sensitive data. 

<a href="https://security.sourcegraph.com/" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

### 📈 Advanced admin capabilities
<br />
<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrades"><Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" /></a>

> #### Save time upgrading to Sourcegraph 4.0 with multi-version upgrades

Reviewer 4: @efritz you please review this by EOD today to ensure the content is accurate? Please keep in mind that we're focusing on the benefits and value to our customers/prospects within this release post.

Reviewer 9: LGTM!

We know that upgrading Sourcegraph can be a time-intensive process, especially if you fall a few versions behind. Sourcegraph 4.0 supports multi-version upgrades so you can upgrade to 4.0 directly from version 3.20 or higher.

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Multi-version%20upgrades%20final',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Multi-version%20upgrades%20final'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Multi-version upgrades"
  caption="Upgrade to 4.0 directly from version 3.20 or higher with multi-version upgrades"
/>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrades" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

<br />
<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/analytics"><Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" /></a>

> #### Understand usage and quantify the value of using Sourcegraph with in-product analytics

Reviewer 4: @ryphil @macraigyou please review this by EOD today to ensure the content is accurate? Please keep in mind that we're focusing on the benefits and value to our customers/prospects within this release post.

Reviewer 14: LGTM! Thank you!

Reviewer 4: TY for reviewing!

> Our new in-product analytics help admins to understand user engagement, measure efficiency in terms of time saved, and calculate the value of Sourcegraph and its features. 

Reviewer 4: I assume you mean this would replace the entire section and line 189 would go away. Is that correct @abschu

- The number of searches developers have run in Sourcegraph, and how many hours of development time have been saved as a result.
- How many code insights have been created, viewed, and interacted with.
- The number of changesets that have been created and merged via batch changes, and how much time has been saved as a result.
- How frequently code navigation has been used by developers to more quickly understand code.
- How often IDE and Browser extensions are used across your organization, and how much time has been saved as a result.
- The number of navigation events and the percentage of your repositories that allow precise code navigation

Admins can select a specific date range and customize the assumpted to align with how the platform is used. 

<div className="tw-mb-sm">
  <Figure
    src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Search.png"
    alt="In-product analytics"
    caption="Docs"
    link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/analytics"
    linkIcon={true}
  />
</div>

<br />
<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/observability/opentelemetry"><Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" /></a>

> #### Easily export traces using OpenTelemetry

Reviewer 4: @quinnhare you please review this by EOD today to ensure the content is accurate? Please keep in mind that we're focusing on the benefits and value to our customers/prospects within this release post.

Reviewer 13: Looks good to me.

[OpenTelemetry (OTEL)](https://opentelemetry.io/) is an open specification for exporting observability data into a user’s preferred systems. We aim to make OpenTelmetry the default way to quickly and easily export observability data from Sourcgraph, starting with tracing in Sourcegraph 4.0. This is a breaking change as we now require you to export tracing with the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/). This is deployed by default in all Sourcegraph deployment methods and replaces the Jaeger agents and collectors that was previously the default. 

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/observability/opentelemetry" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

<br />
<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/external_service"><Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" /></a>

> #### Quickly see the status on your repository and permissions syncing

Reviewer 4: @ryphil you please review this by EOD today to ensure the content is accurate? Please keep in mind that we're focusing on the benefits and value to our customers/prospects within this release post.

> New enhancements to the repository status page help admins better understand the current state of the repository and permissions syncing. A new header displays an up-to-date count of repositories (total, not cloned, cloned, cloning, failed to fetch/clone), notifications are more actionable, and new filters help Admins drill down into specific repositories. These improvements make it easier for admins to understand the current state of repositories synced with Sourcegraph and pinpoint syncing errors when they arise. 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
New enhancements to the repository status page help you better understand the current state of repository and permissions syncing. A new header displays an up-to-date count of repositories (total, not cloned, cloned, cloning, failed to fetch/clone), notifications are more actionable, and new filters help you drill down into specific repositories. These improvements make it easier for you to understand the current state of repositories synced with Sourcegraph and pinpoint syncing errors if they arise. 
```

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.0"
publishDate: 2022-09-27T10:00-07:00
description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.0"
published: true
heroImage: blog/release-post/4.0/Release.png
socialImage: blog/release-post/4.0/Release.png
changelogItems:
---

WIP INTRO: Sourcegraph 4.0, the latest version of our code intelligence platform, is now available. Our code intelligence platform includes a dozen new features to grok code, spend more time in flow, and execute big decisive refactors across your codebase.

A code intelligence platform indexes and understands all of your organization's code, no matter where it's stored or what language it's in. With Sourcegraph, devs and engineering leaders have a complete understanding of their codebase, so they can learn about code and operate more efficiently. 

Read on to discover everything that shipped in Sourcegraph 4.0.  

### 🧠 Code intelligence: uplevel your code search

<br />
<Badge text="Code Insights" link="/code-insights" color="green" size="small" />

> #### Understand usage and search structure with Code Insights within the search UI

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#### Understand usage and code structure with Code Insights in the search UI
```

Reviewer 5: (this is more correct, we don't do anything about search structure so it'd be incorrect to say that)

Reviewer 4: Thanks - committing it now.

> [Code Insights](https://about.sourcegraph.com/code-insights) turns your code into a queryable database to create customizable, visual dashboards. We're bringing the power of Code Insights directly into the search UI to surface high-level information about your code, help you answer questions about your code, and refine your search results.  

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
[Code Insights](https://about.sourcegraph.com/code-insights) turns your code into a queryable database to create customizable, visual dashboards. We're bringing the power of Code Insights directly into the search UI to surface high-level information from your codebase, help you answer questions about your code, and refine your search results.  
```

shouldn't repeat "about your code" twice

> [Code Insights](https://about.sourcegraph.com/code-insights) turns your code into a queryable database to create customizable, visual dashboards. We're bringing the power of Code Insights directly into the search UI to surface high-level information about your code, help you answer questions about your code, and refine your search results.  

Reviewer 12: URL should be relative:

```suggestion
[Code Insights](/code-insights) turns your code into a queryable database to create customizable, visual dashboards. We're bringing the power of Code Insights directly into the search UI to surface high-level information about your code, help you answer questions about your code, and refine your search results.  
```

> Search aggregation charts appear on the search results page to help you answer questions, like:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Search aggregation charts appear on the search results page to answer questions like:
```
(to make shorter, made this change before but got reverted maybe?)

- How many different versions of a library or package are present in your code, and which is most common? 
- Which files have the majority of these search results?

> - Which repositories are this library used in most?

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Which repositories use this library the most?
```
(make active, my bad for late catch sorry)

- Which library components are used most? By who?
- What are all the possible arguments we pass to this function? 

You can choose to group your search results by location (repo or file), author, or arbitrary capture group pattern. Here are some [example search aggregations to get started with.](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/references/search_aggregations_use_cases)

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Search_Aggregations_4.0',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Search_Aggregations_4.0'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="High-level aggregations"
  caption="The power of Code Insights is now within the search UI to surface usage patterns about your code"
/>
<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/search_results_aggregations" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>
  
<br />
<a href="/code-search"><Badge text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" /></a>

#### A faster, simpler search experience 

> We streamlined and simplified the search user interface to make the platform more intuitive. The search homepage now has contextual tips and recommendations using real data from your instance, including repository names, file names, and authors. This information makes it easier and faster than ever to run a successful search query. 

Reviewer 15: Note that this feature (search homepage tips) is only available for customer instances and not on [sourcegraph.com/search](https://sourcegraph.com/search)

Reviewer 4: Thanks - I added the context.

> Search results are now front and center with the improved interface. The search sidebar has moved to the right side of the screen, and we eliminated several non-essential elements to ensure the information you need is easy to access. Filters make it effortless for you to answer questions about your code, and the sidebar can be collapsed altogether to reduce noise. 

Reviewer 15: Might also be good to mention that we now highlight matches in file and repository names in addition to file content.

Reviewer 4: added

> Major performance improvements make rendering search results, files, blobs, and repository pages faster than ever.

Reviewer 15: very minor: This paragraph looks a bit awkward being much shorter than the previous two and in a slightly different tone. But I'm not sure how much detail we want to add here without getting too technical. I've tried rewording it a little bit to fit in more with the written style of the previous paragraphs. Files and blobs are the same thing so no need to mention both.

```suggestion
We also made major performance improvements to make rendering search results, files, and repositories faster than ever. 
```

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Reference%20panel',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Reference%20panel'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Reference panel refresh"
  caption="Stay within your workflow and quickly access references with the revamped reference panel"
/>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/explanations/features#find-references" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

### 🏗️ High-leverage ways to improve your entire codebase
<br />
<a href="/batch-changes"><Badge text="Batch Changes" color="blue" size="small" /></a>

#### Make changes across your codebase at enterprise scale with server-side Batch Changes (beta)

> [Batch Changes](https://about.sourcegraph.com/batch-changes) allows you to automate code changes across your entire codebase. Previously, you had to run src-cli locally to create batch changes, which could take an impractical amount of time or be brittle for large or resource-intensive batch changes. Now, with server-side Batch Changes, large-scale changes can be run across thousands of repositories with a better development experience. By running Batch Changes server-side you can:

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
[Batch Changes](https://about.sourcegraph.com/batch-changes) allows you to automate code changes across your entire codebase. Previously, you had to run src-cli locally to create batch changes, which could take an impractical amount of time or be brittle for large or resource-intensive batch changes. Now, with server-side Batch Changes, large-scale changes can be run across thousands of repositories with a better development experience. With server-side Batch Changes:
```

That way, we don't say "by running batch changes you can run batch changes"

Reviewer 4: Good point

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.0"
publishDate: 2022-09-27T10:00-07:00
description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.0"
published: true
heroImage: blog/release-post/4.0/Release.png
socialImage: blog/release-post/4.0/Release.png
changelogItems:
---

WIP INTRO: Sourcegraph 4.0, the latest version of our code intelligence platform, is now available. Our code intelligence platform includes a dozen new features to grok code, spend more time in flow, and execute big decisive refactors across your codebase.

A code intelligence platform indexes and understands all of your organization's code, no matter where it's stored or what language it's in. With Sourcegraph, devs and engineering leaders have a complete understanding of their codebase, so they can learn about code and operate more efficiently. 

Read on to discover everything that shipped in Sourcegraph 4.0.  

### 🧠 Code intelligence: uplevel your code search

<br />
<Badge text="Code Insights" link="/code-insights" color="green" size="small" />

#### Understand usage and code structure with Code Insights in the search UI

> [Code Insights](https://about.sourcegraph.com/code-insights) turns your code into a queryable database to create customizable, visual dashboards. We're bringing the power of Code Insights directly into the search UI to surface high-level information from your codebase, help you answer questions about your code, and refine your search results.  

Reviewer 12: URL needs to be relative:

```suggestion
[Code Insights](/code-insights) turns your code into a queryable database to create customizable, visual dashboards. We're bringing the power of Code Insights directly into the search UI to surface high-level information from your codebase, help you answer questions about your code, and refine your search results.  
```

[Search results](https://about.sourcegraph.com/code-search) are now front and center with the improved interface. The search sidebar has moved to the right side of the screen, matches in file and respository names are now highlighted, and we eliminated several non-essential elements to ensure the information you need is easy to access. Filters make it effortless for you to answer questions about your code, and the sidebar can be collapsed altogether to reduce noise. 

We also made major performance improvements to make rendering search results, files, and repositories faster than ever. 

<div className="tw-mb-sm">
  <Figure
    src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/New-Search-UI.png"
    alt="UI Improvements"
    catpion="A streamlined and simplified the search user interface"
  />
</div>

<br />
<Badge link="/code-search" text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" />

> #### Configure precise code navigation for 9 languages in a matter of minutes with auto-indexing

Reviewer 4: Looks like this link is throwing an error: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/references/indexer. Let us know which one to use @macraig

> #### Configure precise code navigation for 9 languages in a matter of minutes with auto-indexing

Reviewer 3: I agree with @abschu let's use the auto-indexing one. 

Note: The other one contained a typo and should work using https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/references/indexers, sorry about that!

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/explanations/features#find-references" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

### 🏗️ High-leverage ways to improve your entire codebase
<br />
<Badge link="/batch-changes" text="Batch Changes" color="blue" size="small" />

#### Make changes across your codebase at enterprise scale with server-side Batch Changes (beta)
[Batch Changes](https://about.sourcegraph.com/batch-changes) allows you to automate code changes across your entire codebase. Previously, you had to run `src-cli` locally to create batch changes, which could take an impractical amount of time or be brittle for large or resource-intensive batch changes. Now, with server-side Batch Changes, large-scale changes can be run across thousands of repositories with a better development experience. With server-side Batch Changes:

- Run large-scale or resource-intensive batch changes without clogging your local machine.
- Run large batch changes quickly by distributing them across an autoscaled pool of compute instances.
- Get a better debugging experience by streaming logs directly into Sourcegraph.

> This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph uses for running large-scale changes. Executors can also be used to run [code navigation auto-indexing](https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/blob/bf341aafde75450c295aaec064470017020cdcd8/content/blogposts/2022/sourcegraph-4.0.md#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs). All Sourcegraph Cloud instances have one or more executors available by default. 

Reviewer 4: @malomarrec Updated this from saying " This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks" to "This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph uses for running large-scale changes." 

Are you good with that change?

<Badge link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrades" text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" />

#### Upgrade directly to Sourcegraph 4.0 from earlier versions of Sourcegraph
We know that upgrading Sourcegraph can be a time-intensive process, especially if you fall a few versions behind. Sourcegraph 4.0 supports [multi-version upgrades](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrade) so you can upgrade to 4.0 directly from version 3.20 or higher.

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Multi-version%20upgrades%20final',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Multi-version%20upgrades%20final'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Multi-version upgrades"
  caption="Upgrade to 4.0 directly from version 3.20 or higher with multi-version upgrades"
/>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrades" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

<br />
<Badge link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/analytics" text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" />

#### Understand usage and quantify the value of using Sourcegraph with in-product analytics

> [In-product analytics](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/analytics) helps admins understand user engagement, measure efficiency in terms of time saved, and calculate the value of utilizing Sourcegraph.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
[In-product analytics](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/analytics) helps admins understand user engagement, measure efficiency in terms of time saved, and calculate the value of utilizing Sourcegraph.

These analytics show the exact usage of your Sourcegraph instance so you can see which features are most used across your organization. The usage data is also used to quantify how much time developers have saved as they use Sourcegraph to search and understand code, run batch changes, create insights, and more. You can also customize the default time-saved values to reflect how your team uses Sourcegraph. 

With in-product analytics, you can now report on:
```

If you incorporate this change, delete The feature value calculators use data derived from event logs and the default time-saved values can be customized to reflect how your team uses Sourcegraph.

With charts that detail usage over time and value calculators that quantify the amount of time saved as users search, create insights, run batch changes, and more, you can now report on:
- The number of searches developers have run in Sourcegraph, and how much development time has been saved as a result.
- How many Code Insights charts have been created, viewed, and interacted with.
- The number of changesets that have been created and merged via Batch Changes, and how much time has been saved as a result.
- How frequently code navigation has been used by developers to more quickly understand code.
- How often IDE and browser extensions are used across your organization, and how much time has been saved as a result.

> - The number of navigation events and the percentage of your repositories that allow precise code navigation.

Reviewer 4: Are you referencing the info from Maria? This is the bullet that covers it: The number of navigation events and the percentage of your repositories that allow precise code navigation.

https://sourcegraph.sourcegraph.com/site-admin/analytics/code-intel?dateRange=LAST_THREE_MONTHS&aggregation=count&grouping=WEEKLY

The feature value calculators use data derived from event logs and the default time-saved values can be customized to reflect how your team uses Sourcegraph.

<div className="tw-mb-sm">
  <Figure
    src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Search.png"
    alt="In-product analytics"
    caption="Understand usage and quantify the value of using Sourcegraph with in-product analytics"
  />
</div>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/analytics" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

<br />
<Badge link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/observability/opentelemetry" text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" />

#### Easily export traces using OpenTelemetry

> [OpenTelemetry (OTEL)](https://opentelemetry.io/) is an open specification for exporting observability data into a user’s preferred systems. We aim to make OpenTelemetry the default way to quickly and easily export observability data from Sourcgraph, starting with tracing in Sourcegraph 4.0. This is a breaking change as we now require you to export tracing with the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/). This is deployed by default in all Sourcegraph deployment methods and replaces the Jaeger agents and collectors that was previously the default. 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
We’ve added [OpenTelemetry (OTEL)](https://opentelemetry.io/) support in Sourcegraph 4.0 so you can easily export tracing data from Sourcegraph into your preferred observability solution. This is a breaking change as we now require you to export tracing with the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/). This is deployed by default in all Sourcegraph deployment methods and replaces the Jaeger agents and collectors that was previously the default. 
```

@lcolston08 @quinnhare - is this accurate - I am not sure how to talk about "tracing data?" I don't know that we need to explain what OpenTelemetry is. If we want to keep the sentence, then I'd recommend:
[OpenTelemetry (OTEL)](https://opentelemetry.io/) is an open specification for exporting observability data. We’ve added OpenTelemetry support in Sourcegraph 4.0 so you can easily export tracing data from Sourcegraph into your preferred observability solution This is a breaking change as we now require you to export tracing with the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/). This is deployed by default in all Sourcegraph deployment methods and replaces the Jaeger agents and collectors that was previously the default.

Reviewer 4: I personally think we should explain what OpenTelemetry is since it's not a feature that we own.

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.0"
publishDate: 2022-09-27T10:00-07:00
description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.0"
published: true

> heroImage: blog/release-post/4.0/Release.png
> socialImage: blog/release-post/4.0/Release.png

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/4.0/release.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/4.0/release.png
```

changelogItems:
---

> WIP INTRO: Sourcegraph 4.0, the latest version of our code intelligence platform, is now available. Our code intelligence platform includes a dozen new features to grok code, spend more time in flow, and execute big decisive refactors across your codebase.

Reviewer 8: @lcolston08 @iskyOS - what about something like this for the intro (pulled from the CIP post):

We've spent 9 years building the underlying foundation of code search to be fast, secure, and scalable across ~10^11 lines of code for the world's most demanding software teams. Now, we’re hard at work making Sourcegraph even smarter.

Sourcegraph 4.0 includes over a dozen updates and new features, and is the first step toward Sourcegraph becoming a [code intelligence platform](/blog/code-search-to-code-intelligence). 

Read on to discover everything that shipped in Sourcegraph 4.0.

Reviewer 4: I think it works. I personally think we need to have some type of answer to what a code intelligence platform is, but I guess with the link to the blog, we're hoping the reader gets the idea from the narrative.

Reviewer 4: @abschu and @iskyOS What about the BLUF approach by focusing on the release first and the backstory second? 

Sourcegraph 4.0, the latest version of our code intelligence platform, is now available. Our code intelligence platform includes a dozen new features that make the platform more useful for every dev.

We've spent 9 years building the underlying foundation of code search to be fast, secure, and scalable across ~10^11 lines of code for the world's most demanding software teams. Now, we’re hard at work making Sourcegraph even smarter, is the first step toward Sourcegraph becoming a [code intelligence platform](https://github.com/blog/code-search-to-code-intelligence).

Read on to discover everything that shipped in Sourcegraph 4.0.

> A code intelligence platform indexes and understands all of your organization's code, no matter where it's stored or what language it's in. With Sourcegraph, devs and engineering leaders have a complete understanding of their codebase, so they can learn about code and operate more efficiently. 

Author: ```suggestion
A code intelligence platform indexes and understands all of your organization's code, no matter where it's stored or what language it's in. With Sourcegraph, devs and engineering leaders have a complete understanding of their codebase, so they can learn about code and answer difficult questions about their codebase. 
```

Author: Updating to match language in the narrative blog.

Read on to discover everything that shipped in Sourcegraph 4.0.  

### 🧠 Code intelligence: uplevel your code search

<br />
<Badge text="Code Insights" link="/code-insights" color="green" size="small" />

> #### Understand usage and code structure with Code Insights in the search UI

Reviewer 4: @Joelkw one final review, please.

Auto-indexing allows you to set up precise code navigation for any chosen repositories with the click of a button, and it automatically keeps your repositories indexed and your [code graph data](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/explanations/uploads) up to date for accurate code navigation. With the release of 4.0, auto-indexing is now supported for 9 languages including Ruby, Rust, Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Python, TypeScript, and JavaScript, and it's turned on by default for Cloud customers.

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Auto-Indexing%20and%20Code%20Navigation',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Auto-Indexing%20and%20Code%20Navigation'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Ruby precise code navigation"
  caption="Auto-indexing is now supported for 9 languages and allows you to set up precise code navigation, automatically"
/>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/references/indexers" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

<br />
<Badge link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/integration" text="Extensions" color="vermillion" size="small" />

> #### Your favorite extensions are now available by default 

Reviewer 4: @ryankscott one final review, please.

Now that top extensions are part of the core functionality, there will be greater support and continued improvements over time. With this change, you will no longer be able to access the extensions registry or create extensions on a private registry. Note: If you still need access to extensions or create extensions on a private registry, you can enable a feature flag to do so until early 2023.

This update *does not* impact our IDE extensions, which will continue to allow you to search and navigate across all of your repositories without ever leaving your IDE or checking them out locally. Our browser extensions will continue to have code navigation support, but other functionality to the code host will be discontinued (e.g. code coverage information).

<div className="tw-mb-sm">
  <Figure
    src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Blame.png"
    alt="Git Blame"
    caption="Git-extras is now part of the platform and core functionality"
  />
</div>

<br />
<Badge link="/code-search" text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" />

> #### Find answers faster with a revamped reference panel 

Reviewer 4: @macraig one final review, please.

Reviewer 3: @lcolston08 there's only one filter so changed to a singular version. Everything else LGTM!

Reviewer 4: Thanks for your diligent review @macraig

> Your code navigation experience just got better with a refreshed version of the reference panel. Stay within your workflow with a new preview panel that helps you [navigate references](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/explanations/features#find-references) without having to leave the file. The consolidation of definitions, references, and implementations in the same tab reduces the number of clicks needed to get pertinent information. You can find the references you're looking for much faster using new filters, so you'll no longer need to scroll through dozens of results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your code navigation experience just got better with a refreshed version of the reference panel. Stay within your workflow with a new preview panel that helps you [navigate references](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/explanations/features#find-references) without having to leave the file. The consolidation of definitions, references, and implementations in the same tab reduces the number of clicks needed to get pertinent information. You can find the references you're looking for much faster using the new file name filter, so you'll no longer need to scroll through dozens of results.
```

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Reference%20panel',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Reference%20panel'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Reference panel refresh"
  caption="Stay within your workflow and quickly access references with the revamped reference panel"
/>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/explanations/features#find-references" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

### 🏗️ High-leverage ways to improve your entire codebase
<br />
<Badge link="/batch-changes" text="Batch Changes" color="blue" size="small" />

> #### Make changes across your codebase at enterprise scale with server-side Batch Changes (beta)

Reviewer 4: @malomarrec one final review, please.

- Get a better debugging experience by streaming logs directly into Sourcegraph.

This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph uses for running large-scale changes. Executors can also be used to run [code navigation auto-indexing](https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/blob/bf341aafde75450c295aaec064470017020cdcd8/content/blogposts/2022/sourcegraph-4.0.md#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs). All Sourcegraph Cloud instances have one or more executors available by default. 

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Server%20Side%20Batch%20Changes%20',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Server%20Side%20Batch%20Changes%20'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Server-side Batch Changes"
  caption="Large-scale changes can be run across thousands of repositories with server-side Batch Changes"
/>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/server_side" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

### ☁️ Dedicated Sourcegraph Cloud instances for enterprise

<br />
<Badge link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/cloud" text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" />

> ####  Sourcegraph Cloud, our single-tenant cloud offering, is now generally available

Reviewer 4: @iskyOS one final review, please.

Author: Done!

Reviewer 8: @iskyOS @lcolston08 Now that the cloud post has been updated, thoughts on this (to make it clear that we technically already have a cloud offering:

After almost a decade of developing self-hosted Sourcegraph, we’ve gained the trust of some of the most sophisticated companies and development teams in the world, allowing us to work with their most sensitive IP: their code. But not everyone loves self-hosting, so over the last year we worked with customers to build a Sourcegraph cloud service that meets their security and scalability needs and we recently completed our [SOC 2 Type II audit](https://security.sourcegraph.com).

Dedicated, single-tenant Sourcegraph Cloud instances are now generally available and the best way for teams to use Sourcegraph. You can read more in our announcement blog [here](/blog/enterprise-cloud), or [sign up for a 30-day trial for your organization](https://signup.sourcegraph.com/).

After almost a decade of developing self-hosted Sourcegraph, we’ve gained the trust of some of the most sophisticated companies and development teams in the world, allowing us to work with their most sensitive IP: their code. Today—after years of building trust and engineering rigor—we are excited to move confidently to the cloud with a highly secure and scalable solution.

> Dedicated, single-tenant Sourcegraph Cloud instances are now generally available, and the best way for teams to use Sourcegraph. You can read more in our announcement blog [here](/blog/enterprise-cloud), or [sign up for a 30-day trial for your organization](https://signup.sourcegraph.com/).

Author: ```suggestion
Dedicated, single-tenant Sourcegraph Cloud instances are now generally available and the best way for teams to use Sourcegraph. You can read more in our announcement blog [here](/blog/enterprise-cloud), or [sign up for a 30-day trial for your organization](https://signup.sourcegraph.com/).
```

Author: I _think_ that comma is unnecessary (creates a sentence fragment)

> Dedicated, single-tenant Sourcegraph Cloud instances are now generally available and the best way for teams to use Sourcegraph. You can read more in our announcement blog [here](/blog/enterprise-cloud), or [sign up for a 30-day trial for your organization](https://signup.sourcegraph.com/).

Reviewer 8: @lcolston08 @iskyOS - should we mention SOC 2 here as well (even though SOC 2 also has its own section)?

Reviewer 4: I think having the term "secure" in there covers our security measures and SOC 2 Type II is mentioned right below.  Might be different if the SOC 2 Type II callout was to be listed several sections below.

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/cloud" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>
  
<br />
<Badge link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/cloud" text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" />

> #### SOC 2 Type II certification for Sourcegraph Cloud

Reviewer 4: @doragrgic one final review, please.

Reviewer 16: Please see suggestion - SOC 2 is not a certification.

> #### SOC 2 Type II certification for Sourcegraph Cloud

Reviewer 16: ```suggestion
#### SOC 2 Type II attestation for Sourcegraph Cloud
```

Let's change the word "certification" to "attestation"

We know that your code is one of your most important and sensitive assets. Every component of Sourcegraph was designed with security in mind. As part of our ongoing commitment to security, we recently received our SOC 2 Type II attestation for Sourcegraph Cloud. When you use Sourcegraph, you can be confident that Sourcegraph controls the security and confidentiality of your sensitive data.

Check out our [Security Portal](https://security.sourcegraph.com/) to access the report and learn more about our security program.

<a href="https://security.sourcegraph.com/" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

### 📈 Advanced admin capabilities
<br />
<Badge link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrades" text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" />

> #### Upgrade directly to Sourcegraph 4.0 from earlier versions of Sourcegraph

Reviewer 4: @efritz one final review, please.

- How many Code Insights charts have been created, viewed, and interacted with.
- The number of changesets that have been created and merged via Batch Changes, and how much time has been saved as a result.
- How frequently code navigation has been used by developers to quickly understand code.
- How often IDE and browser extensions are used across your organization, and how much time has been saved as a result.
- The number of navigation events and the percentage of your repositories that allow precise code navigation.

<div className="tw-mb-sm">
  <Figure
    src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Search.png"
    alt="In-product analytics"
    caption="Understand usage and quantify the value of using Sourcegraph with in-product analytics"
  />
</div>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/analytics" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

<br />
<Badge link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/observability/opentelemetry" text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" />

> #### Easily export traces using OpenTelemetry

Reviewer 4: @quinnhare one final review, please.

> [OpenTelemetry (OTEL)]((https://opentelemetry.io/)) is an open specification for exporting observability data. We’ve added OpenTelemetry support in Sourcegraph 4.0 so you can easily export tracing data from Sourcegraph into your preferred observability solution. This is a breaking change as we now require you to export tracing with the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/). This is deployed by default in all Sourcegraph deployment methods and replaces the Jaeger agents and collectors that was previously the default.

Reviewer 4: Updated this section based on feedback from @abschu, but I left in the description for OpenTelemetry. Would love your approval for accuracy @quinnhare

Reviewer 13: Looks good to me.

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/observability/opentelemetry" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

<br />
<Badge link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/external_service" text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" />

> #### Quickly see the status on your repository and permissions syncing

Reviewer 17: @ryphil @lcolston08 to be precise: this is unrelated to "permissions syncing", it's solely about repositories and syncing code from code hosts to Sourcegraph. I'd remove the "permissions syncing".

```suggestion
#### Quickly see the status on your repositories being synced
```

New enhancements to the repository status page help you better understand the current state of [repository and permissions syncing](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/external_service?_ga=2.212906964.1999310251.1663878766-858725936.1663878766). A new header displays an up-to-date count of repositories (total, not cloned, cloned, cloning, failed to fetch/clone), notifications are more actionable, and new filters help you drill down into specific repositories. These improvements make it easier for you to understand the current state of repositories synced with Sourcegraph and pinpoint syncing errors if they arise. 

<Figure
  src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Repositories.png"
  alt="Repository Status"

>   caption="See the current state of repository and permisions syncing"

Reviewer 17: ```suggestion
  caption="See the current state of your repositories being synced"
```

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.0"
publishDate: 2022-09-27T10:00-07:00
description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.0"
published: true
heroImage: 
socialImage: 
changelogItems:
---

> Sourcegraph 4.0, the latest version of our code intelligence platform, is now available. Our code intelligence platform includes a dozen new features to grok code, spend more time in flow, and execute big decisive refactors across your codebase.

Reviewer 4: @abschu and @iskyOS - updated the intro based on Beyang's feedback in the email and the updates to the narrative blog. LMK what you think.

A code intelligence platform indexes and understands all of your organization's code, no matter where it's stored or what language it's in. With Sourcegraph, devs and engineering leaders have a complete understanding of their codebase, so they can learn about code and opperate more effeciently. 

Read on to discover everything that shipped in Sourcegraph 4.0.  

### 🌅 Code intelligence: more useful, more times daily for every dev

<a href="/code-insights"><Badge text="Code Insights" color="green" size="small" /></a>

> #### Understand usage and search structure with high-level aggregations of search results

Reviewer 8: Understand usage patterns and refine search results with insights embedded into the search results page? @lcolston08 @felixfbecker @Joelkw

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Server%20Side%20Batch%20Changes%20',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Server%20Side%20Batch%20Changes%20'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Server-side Batch Changes"
  caption="Side by side comparison of deploying Batch Changes locally vs. server-side"
/>

 <a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/explanations/server_side" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">
      <p className="tw-m-0 tw-mr-2">Docs</p>
      <OpenInNewIcon className="tw-inline" size={18} />
  </a>

### ☁️ Dedicated Sourcegraph Cloud instances for enterprise

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/cloud"><Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" /></a>

#### Scale confidently with a dedicated and secure instance of Sourcegraph Cloud
After almost a decade of developing self-hosted Sourcegraph, we’ve gained the trust of some of the most sophisticated companies and development teams in the world, allowing us to work with their most sensitive IP: their code. Today—after years of building trust and engineering rigor—we are excited to move confidently to the Cloud with this highly secure and scalable solution.

> Sourcegraph Cloud now offers dedicated, single-tenant instances of Sourcegraph, making it easier than ever for new teams to get started. You can read more in our announcement blog here[/blog/enterprise-cloud].

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
Dedicated, single-tenant Sourcegraph Cloud instances are now generally available, and the best way for new teams to use Sourcegraph. You can read more in our announcement blog here[/blog/enterprise-cloud].
```

CC @iskyOS

> After almost a decade of developing self-hosted Sourcegraph, we’ve gained the trust of some of the most sophisticated companies and development teams in the world, allowing us to work with their most sensitive IP: their code. Today—after years of building trust and engineering rigor—we are excited to move confidently to the Cloud with this highly secure and scalable solution.

Author: ```suggestion
After almost a decade of developing self-hosted Sourcegraph, we’ve gained the trust of some of the most sophisticated companies and development teams in the world, allowing us to work with their most sensitive IP: their code. Today—after years of building trust and engineering rigor—we are excited to move confidently to the Cloud with a highly secure and scalable solution.
```

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/cloud" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">
      <p className="tw-m-0 tw-mr-2">Docs</p>
      <OpenInNewIcon className="tw-inline" size={18} />
  </a>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/cloud"><Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" /></a>

> #### Assured Cloud security with SOC 2 Type II attestation 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
#### SOC 2 Type II certification for Sourcegraph Cloud
```

> Sourcegraph continues our committment to the security of your most valuable IP — your code — through our security operations, compliance measures, and best practices. With our recent SOC 2 Type II attestation for Soucegraph Cloud, we met the high standards of the third-party audit, and you can be conficent that Sourcegraph controls for the secruity and availability of your sensitive data. 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph has always been committed to protecting your most valuable IP — your code — through our security operations, compliance measures, and best practices. Sourcegraph has received a SOC 2 Type II report, so you can be confident that Sourcegraph controls for the security and confidentiality of your sensitive data.

Check out our new [Security Portal](https://security.sourcegraph.com/) to learn more about our security program.
```

@doragrgic - can you please review this for the release post?

<a href="https://security.sourcegraph.com/" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">
      <p className="tw-m-0 tw-mr-2">Docs</p>
      <OpenInNewIcon className="tw-inline" size={18} />
  </a>

### 💖 Advanced admin capabilities

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrades"><Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" /></a>

#### Save time upgrading to Sourcegraph 4.0 with multi-version upgrades

> Sourcegraph 4.0 supports multi-version upgrades so you can upgrade to 4.0 directly from version 3.20 or higher. It eliminates the number of steps and the amount of time it takes to get access to new features and enhancements released each month. 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
We know that upgrading Sourcegraph can be a time-intensive process, especially if you fall a few versions behind. Sourcegraph 4.0 supports multi-version upgrades so you can upgrade to 4.0 directly from version 3.20 or higher.
```

Can we add one or two sentences about what it takes to upgrade?

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Multi-version%20upgrades%20final',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Multi-version%20upgrades%20final'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Multi-version upgrades"
  caption="Demo of multi-version upgrades"
/>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrades" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">
      <p className="tw-m-0 tw-mr-2">Docs</p>
      <OpenInNewIcon className="tw-inline" size={18} />
  </a>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/analytics"><Badge text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" /></a>

> #### View usage and measure the value of our platform with new and enhanced in-product analytics

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
#### Understand usage and quantify the value of using Sourcegraph with in-product analytics
```

Our new in-product analytics help admins to understand user engagement, measure efficiency in terms of time saved, and calculate the value of Sourcegraph and its features. 

> These analytics work across all of our products and provides ROI-based metrics such as:

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
In-product analytics works across all of our products and provides ROI-based metrics such as:
```

- The number of searches developers have run in Sourcegraph, and how many hours of development time have been saved as a result.
- How many code insights have been created, viewed, and interacted with.
- The number of changesets that have been created and merged via batch changes, and how much time has been saved as a result.
- How frequently code navigation has been used by developers to more quickly understand code.
- How often IDE and Browser extensions are used across your organization, and how much time has been saved as a result.

> - Measure precise code navigation coverage and access precise graph data configured for all of your repositories.

Reviewer 8: This last bullet doesn't really make sense.

> Admins can configure the date range selector and view the adoption of a feature over time by both volume and the number of users. The value calculators use data derived from the event logs and are designed to allow admins to adjust to conditions in their environment by editing the default time-saved values. 

Reviewer 8: This is a bit confusing - basically we are trying to say you can customize the assumptions to align with how you're using the product.

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.0"
publishDate: 2022-09-27T10:00-07:00
description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.0"
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/4.0/release.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/4.0/release.png
changelogItems:
---

WIP INTRO: 

We've spent 9 years building the underlying foundation of code search to be fast, secure, and scalable across ~10^11 lines of code for the world's most demanding software teams. Now, we’re hard at work making Sourcegraph even smarter.

> Sourcegraph 4.0 includes over a dozen updates and new features, and is the first step toward Sourcegraph becoming a [code intelligence platform](blog/code-search-to-code-intelligence).

Reviewer 18: I recommend adding a quick tease of what a code intelligence platform is - like adding:

> (motto: *"answers, not just matching lines"*)

Reviewer 4: @abschu what do think about adding:

 A code intelligence platform indexes and understands all of your organization’s code, no matter where it’s stored or what language it’s in. Instead of just finding matching lines in code, devs and engineering can learn about code and answer difficult questions about their codebase.

Reviewer 12: Link fix:

```suggestion
Sourcegraph 4.0 includes over a dozen updates and new features, and is the first step toward Sourcegraph becoming a [code intelligence platform](/blog/code-search-to-code-intelligence).
```

> Sourcegraph 4.0 includes over a dozen updates and new features, and is the first step toward Sourcegraph becoming a [code intelligence platform](blog/code-search-to-code-intelligence).

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph 4.0 includes over a dozen updates and new features, and is the first step toward Sourcegraph becoming a [code intelligence platform](blog/code-search-to-code-intelligence).

A code intelligence platform indexes and understands all of your organization’s code, so instead of just *matching lines in code*, you can answer questions and learn *about* code. 
```

> Read on to discover everything that shipped in Sourcegraph 4.0.

Reviewer 18: ```suggestion
Read on to discover everything in Sourcegraph 4.0.
```

and recommend adding a table of contents for easy scannability, and then the CTA (which is Cloud signup and Cloud tease) right after that, then all the sections

Reviewer 4: Working on the table of contents and CTA too.

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Search%20Aggregations',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Search%20Aggregations'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="High-level aggregations"
  caption="The power of Code Insights is now within the search UI to surface usage patterns about your code"
/>
<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/search_results_aggregations" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>
  
<br />
<Badge link="/code-search" text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" />

#### A faster, simpler search experience 
We streamlined and simplified the search user interface to make the platform more intuitive. The search homepage, for customer instances of Sourcegraph, now has contextual tips and recommendations using real data from your instance, including repository names, file names, and authors. This information makes it easier and faster than ever to run a successful search query.

> [Search results](https://about.sourcegraph.com/code-search) are now front and center with the improved interface. The search sidebar has moved to the right side of the screen, matches in file and respository names are now highlighted, and we eliminated several non-essential elements to ensure the information you need is easy to access. Filters make it effortless for you to answer questions about your code, and the sidebar can be collapsed altogether to reduce noise. 

Reviewer 12: Relative URL: 

```suggestion
[Search results](/code-search) are now front and center with the improved interface. The search sidebar has moved to the right side of the screen, matches in file and respository names are now highlighted, and we eliminated several non-essential elements to ensure the information you need is easy to access. Filters make it effortless for you to answer questions about your code, and the sidebar can be collapsed altogether to reduce noise. 
```

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Reference%20panel',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Reference%20panel'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="Reference panel refresh"
  caption="Stay within your workflow and quickly access references with the revamped reference panel"
/>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_navigation/explanations/features#find-references" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

### 🏗️ High-leverage ways to improve your entire codebase
<br />
<Badge link="/batch-changes" text="Batch Changes" color="blue" size="small" />

#### Make changes across your codebase at enterprise scale with server-side Batch Changes (beta)

> [Batch Changes](https://about.sourcegraph.com/batch-changes) allows you to automate code changes across your entire codebase. Previously, you had to run `src-cli` locally to create batch changes, which could take an impractical amount of time or be brittle for large or resource-intensive batch changes. Now, with server-side Batch Changes, large-scale changes can be run across thousands of repositories with a better development experience. With server-side Batch Changes, you can:

Reviewer 12: Relative URL:
```suggestion
[Batch Changes](/batch-changes) allows you to automate code changes across your entire codebase. Previously, you had to run `src-cli` locally to create batch changes, which could take an impractical amount of time or be brittle for large or resource-intensive batch changes. Now, with server-side Batch Changes, large-scale changes can be run across thousands of repositories with a better development experience. With server-side Batch Changes, you can:
```

- How many Code Insights charts have been created, viewed, and interacted with.
- The number of changesets that have been created and merged via Batch Changes, and how much time has been saved as a result.
- How frequently code navigation has been used by developers to quickly understand code.
- How often IDE and browser extensions are used across your organization, and how much time has been saved as a result.
- The number of navigation events and the percentage of your repositories that allow precise code navigation.

<div className="tw-mb-sm">
  <Figure
    src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.0/Search.png"
    alt="In-product analytics"
    caption="Understand usage and quantify the value of using Sourcegraph with in-product analytics"
  />
</div>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/analytics" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

<br />
<Badge link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/observability/opentelemetry" text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" />

#### Easily export traces using OpenTelemetry

> [OpenTelemetry (OTEL)]((https://opentelemetry.io/)) is an open specification for exporting observability data. We’ve added OpenTelemetry support in Sourcegraph 4.0 so you can easily export tracing data from Sourcegraph into your preferred observability solution. This is a breaking change as we now require you to export tracing with the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/). This is deployed by default in all Sourcegraph deployment methods and replaces the Jaeger agents and collectors that was previously the default.

Reviewer 12: Link fix:

```suggestion
[OpenTelemetry (OTEL)](https://opentelemetry.io/) is an open specification for exporting observability data. We’ve added OpenTelemetry support in Sourcegraph 4.0 so you can easily export tracing data from Sourcegraph into your preferred observability solution. This is a breaking change as we now require you to export tracing with the [OpenTelemetry collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/). This is deployed by default in all Sourcegraph deployment methods and replaces the Jaeger agents and collectors that was previously the default.
```

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.0"
publishDate: 2022-09-27T10:00-07:00
description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0. The latest release includes over a dozen updates and new features, and it is the first step toward Sourcegraph becoming a code intelligence platform. 
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.0"

> published: true

Reviewer 18: @iskyOS IMO we should add authors: whoever primarily wrote the main part, and then the authors of each section. even if it's a lot of authors. if this is too complex to have a lot of authors, feel free to disregard.

Author: I like this idea @sqs! I don't know if our blog rendering will support that # of authors, but we can test it. I'd also like @lcolston08 to help figure out who those authors should be (and she was the main author).

My recommendation for now is to go forward with the blog as-is, and in the morning we can test the limits on # authors (and Lori can help us figure out who those authors are). We can also merge that as a new PR shortly after this goes live

heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/4.0/release.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/4.0/release.png
changelogItems:
---

> We've spent 9 years building the underlying foundation of code search to be fast, secure, and scalable across ~10^11 lines of code for the world's most demanding software teams. Now, we’re making Sourcegraph even smarter.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
We've spent 9 years building the underlying foundation of code search to be fast, secure, and scalable across ~10<sup>11</sup> lines of code for the world's most demanding software teams. Now, we’re making Sourcegraph even smarter.
```

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.0"
publishDate: 2022-09-27T10:00-07:00
description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0. The latest release includes over a dozen updates and new features, and it is the first step toward Sourcegraph becoming a code intelligence platform 
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.0"
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/4.0/release.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/4.0/release.png
changelogItems:
---

> We've spent 9 years building the underlying foundation of code search to be fast, secure, and scalable across ~10^11 lines of code for the world's most demanding software teams. Now, we’re hard at work making Sourcegraph even smarter.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
We've spent 9 years building the underlying foundation of code search to be fast, secure, and scalable across ~10^11 lines of code for the world's most demanding software teams. Now, we’re making Sourcegraph even smarter.

Sourcegraph 4.0 includes over a dozen updates and new features, and it is the first step toward Sourcegraph becoming a [code intelligence platform](/blog/code-search-to-code-intelligence). A code intelligence platform indexes and understands all of your organization’s code, so instead of just *matching lines in code*, you can *answer questions and learn about code*. 

Today, we're also launching [Sourcegraph Cloud:](/blog/enterprise-cloud) secure, scalable, dedicated Sourcegraph instances on the cloud. Sourcegraph Cloud is the best way to start using Sourcegraph on your organization's code. [Sign up now](https://signup.sourcegraph.com/) to experience Sourcegraph 4.0.
```

> Sourcegraph 4.0 includes over a dozen updates and new features, and it is the first step toward Sourcegraph becoming a [code intelligence platform](/blog/code-search-to-code-intelligence).

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
```

> A code intelligence platform indexes and understands all of your organization’s code, so instead of just *matching lines in code*, you can answer questions and learn *about* code.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
```

**Read on to discover everything in Sourcegraph 4.0:**
* [🧠 Code intelligence: uplevel your code search](#code-intelligence-uplevel-your-code-search)
* [🏗️ High-leverage ways to improve your entire codebase](#high-leverage-ways-to-improve-your-entire-codebase)
* [☁️ Dedicated Sourcegraph Cloud instances for enterprise](#dedicated-sourcegraph-cloud-instances-for-enterprise)
* [📈 Advanced admin capabilities](#advanced-admin-capabilities)

> Today, we're also launching Sourcegraph Cloud: secure, scalable, dedicated Sourcegraph instances on the cloud. Sourcegraph Cloud is the best way to start using Sourcegraph on your organization's code. [Sign up now](https://signup.sourcegraph.com/)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.0"
publishDate: 2022-09-27T10:00-07:00

> description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0. The latest release includes over a dozen updates and new features, and it is the first step toward Sourcegraph becoming a code intelligence platform 

Author: @lcolston08 really small nitpick - I think this description should have a period

```suggestion
description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0. The latest release includes over a dozen updates and new features, and it is the first step toward Sourcegraph becoming a code intelligence platform. 
```

* [☁️ Dedicated Sourcegraph Cloud instances for enterprise](#dedicated-sourcegraph-cloud-instances-for-enterprise)
* [📈 Advanced admin capabilities](#advanced-admin-capabilities)

### <a id="code-intelligence-uplevel-your-code-search"></a> 🧠 Code intelligence: uplevel your code search

<br />
<Badge text="Code Insights" link="/code-insights" color="green" size="small" />

#### Understand usage and code structure with Code Insights in the search UI
[Code Insights](/code-insights) turns your code into a queryable database to create customizable, visual dashboards. We're bringing the power of Code Insights directly into the search UI to surface high-level information from your codebase, help you answer questions about your code, and refine your search results.  

Search aggregation charts appear on the search results page to answer questions like:
- How many different versions of a library or package are present in your code, and which is most common? 
- Which files have the majority of these search results?
- Which repositories is this library used in most?
- Which library components are used most? By who?
- What are all the possible arguments we pass to this function? 

> You can choose to group your search results by location (repo or file), author, or arbitrary capture group pattern. Here are some [example search aggregations to get started with.](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/references/search_aggregations_use_cases)

Reviewer 11: [Content guidelines: use "repository" instead of "repo"](https://handbook.sourcegraph.com/company-info-and-process/communication/content_guidelines/terminology_guidelines/#:~:text=a%20good%20look.-,repository,-repo)

```suggestion
You can choose to group your search results by location (repository or file), author, or arbitrary capture group pattern. Here are some [example search aggregations to get started with.](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/references/search_aggregations_use_cases)
```

<Video 
  source={{
    webm: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Search%20Aggregations',
    mp4: 'blog/release-post/4.0/Search%20Aggregations'
  }}
  loop={true}
  title="High-level aggregations"
  caption="The power of Code Insights is now within the search UI to surface usage patterns about your code"
/>
<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights/explanations/search_results_aggregations" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>
  
<br />
<Badge link="/code-search" text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" />

#### A faster, simpler search experience 
We streamlined and simplified the search user interface to make the platform more intuitive. The search homepage, for customer instances of Sourcegraph, now has contextual tips and recommendations using real data from your instance, including repository names, file names, and authors. This information makes it easier and faster than ever to run a successful search query.

> [Search results](/code-search) are now front and center with the improved interface. The search sidebar has moved to the right side of the screen, matches in file and respository names are now highlighted, and we eliminated several non-essential elements to ensure the information you need is easy to access. Filters make it effortless for you to answer questions about your code, and the sidebar can be collapsed altogether to reduce noise. 

Reviewer 8: @lcolston08 - this should either link to the docs or we should remove the link. This is more about search results vs our code search product.

  
<br />
<Badge link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/cloud" text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" />

#### SOC 2 Type II attestation for Sourcegraph Cloud

We know that your code is one of your most important and sensitive assets. Every component of Sourcegraph was designed with security in mind. As part of our ongoing commitment to security, we recently received our SOC 2 Type II attestation for Sourcegraph Cloud. When you use Sourcegraph, you can be confident that Sourcegraph controls the security and confidentiality of your sensitive data.

Check out our [Security Portal](https://security.sourcegraph.com/) to access the report and learn more about our security program.

<a href="https://security.sourcegraph.com/" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

### <a id="advanced-admin-capabilities"></a> 📈 Advanced admin capabilities
<br />
<Badge link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrades" text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" />

#### Upgrade directly to Sourcegraph 4.0 from earlier versions of Sourcegraph

> We know that upgrading Sourcegraph can be a time-intensive process, especially if you fall a few versions behind. Sourcegraph 4.0 supports [multi-version upgrades](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrade) so you can upgrade to 4.0 directly from version 3.20 or higher.

Reviewer 11: I feel like we're underselling how awesome this is by saying this is only for 4.0. I feel like we should call out that this applies to _any_ version from now on (4.x) etc? That's a way bigger improvement than just a smooth upgrade to 4.0
Maybe something like this?
```suggestion
We know that upgrading Sourcegraph can be a time-intensive process, especially if you fall a few versions behind. Sourcegraph 4.0 supports [multi-version upgrades](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrade) so you can upgrade to 4.0 – and any future version – directly from version 3.20 or higher.
```

cc @efritz

Reviewer 9: I like this edit.

> We know that upgrading Sourcegraph can be a time-intensive process, especially if you fall a few versions behind. Sourcegraph 4.0 supports [multi-version upgrades](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrade) so you can upgrade to 4.0 – and any future version – directly from version 3.20 or higher.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
We know that upgrading Sourcegraph can be a time-intensive process, especially if you fall a few versions behind. Sourcegraph 4.0 supports [multi-version upgrades](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrade) so you can upgrade to 4.0—and any future version—directly from version 3.20 or higher.
```

  title="Multi-version upgrades"
  caption="Upgrade to 4.0 directly from version 3.20 or higher with multi-version upgrades"
/>

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates#multi-version-upgrades" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

<br />
<Badge link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/analytics" text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" />

#### Understand usage and quantify the value of using Sourcegraph with in-product analytics
[In-product analytics](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/analytics) helps admins understand user engagement, measure efficiency in terms of time saved, and calculate the value of utilizing Sourcegraph.

These analytics show the exact usage of your Sourcegraph instance so you can see which features are most used across your organization. The usage data is also used to quantify how much time developers have saved as they use Sourcegraph to search and understand code, run batch changes, create insights, and more. You can also customize the default time-saved values to reflect how your team uses Sourcegraph. 

With in-product analytics, you can now report on:

> 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
```

> With charts that detail usage over time and value calculators that quantify the amount of time saved as users search, create insights, run batch changes, and more, you can now report on:

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 8: This is repetitive with the 2nd paragraph.

</video>

This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run [Code Intelligence auto-indexing](#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs). If you're on cloud, one or more executors are available by default on your instance.

### Find and replace that feels like an IDE, across all your code

IDEs can find and replace strings across your local files. Sourcegraph can find and replace strings across _all_ your code. Change boilerplate, fix typos, or update configuration across all your code, without having to write a script or pull your code locally!

Just run a search query, provide a pattern to find and replace, and get a live preview of the diff. If the changes look good, Batch Changes can send them to your team for review, then automatically and safely open changesets across all your repositories, and let you track them until they get merged. 

<!-- @malomarrec: this is a placeholder -->
<img width="1497" alt="placeholder-sourcegraph-find-and-replace" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25070988/181726971-13007592-c3b9-4f69-a8f3-54e0cf13b7ea.png">

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### See high-level aggregations of your search results set, to quickly answer questions about usage and structure

Sourcegraph returns an exhaustive list of search results – but sometimes you need to know things like: 

- Which files have the bulk of these search results? 
- Which repos is this library used in most? 
- Which subcomponents are used most from this library?
- Who is using our new innersource library?  
- Which areas of the code added back in these regressions? 
- What are all the possible arguments we can pass to this function? 

To answer these questions, Sourcegraph now shows you your search results grouped by location (repo or file), author, and arbitrary capture group pattern. If you want to save any aggregations for future reference, you can 1-click save the results to a code insights dashboard.
```

---
<!--- Product/Eng planning for 4.0 found here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1fy0A659qSvVP9-7Y-p2VrJKJfph3LI0DTvYMUJ82Iu0/edit#gid=0 -->
title: "Sourcegraph 4.0"
publishDate: 
description: Announcing Sourcegraph 4.0
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.0"
published: false
heroImage: 
socialImage: 
changelogItems:
---

# Sourcegraph 4.0 Release Post

## Section 1

## Section 2

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

We're introducing the ability to run batch changes server-side instead of locally, which means you can:
- Run large-scale or resource intensive batch changes without clogging your local machine.
- Run large batch changes fast by distributing them across an autoscaled pool of compute instances.
- Get a better debugging experience, with logs being streamed directly into Sourcegraph.
- Simplify setup for end users.

<video loop autoPlay muted playsInline>
  <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/4.0/side-by-side.mp4" type="video/mp4" data-cookieconsent="ignore" />
</video>

This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run [Code Intelligence auto-indexing](#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs). If you're on cloud, one or more executors are available by default on your instance.

### Find and replace that feels like an IDE, across all your code

> IDEs can find and replace strings across you local files. Sourcegraph can find and replace strings across all your _code_. Change boilerplate, fix typos, or update configuration across all your code, without having to write a script or pull your code locally!

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
IDEs can find and replace strings across your local files. Sourcegraph can find and replace strings across _all_ your code. Change boilerplate, fix typos, or update configuration across all your code, without having to write a script or pull your code locally!
```

> Just run a search query, provide a pattern to find and replace, and get a live preview of the diff. If the changes look good, Batch Changes can send them for review to your team, then automatically and safely open changesets across all your repositories, and let you track them until they get merged. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Just run a search query, provide a pattern to find and replace, and get a live preview of the diff. If the changes look good, Batch Changes can send them to your team for review, then automatically and safely open changesets across all your repositories, and let you track them until they get merged. 
```

Reviewer 7: ty!

</video>

This feature requires admins to set up executors (much like CI agents), which Sourcegraph will use to offload expensive tasks. Executors can also be used to run [Code Intelligence auto-indexing](#TODO-link-to-section-or-docs). If you're on cloud, one or more executors are available by default on your instance.

### Find and replace that feels like an IDE, across all your code

IDEs can find and replace strings across your local files. Sourcegraph can find and replace strings across _all_ your code. Change boilerplate, fix typos, or update configuration across all your code, without having to write a script or pull your code locally!

Just run a search query, provide a pattern to find and replace, and get a live preview of the diff. If the changes look good, Batch Changes can send them to your team for review, then automatically and safely open changesets across all your repositories, and let you track them until they get merged. 

<!-- @malomarrec: this is a placeholder -->
<img width="1497" alt="placeholder-sourcegraph-find-and-replace" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25070988/181726971-13007592-c3b9-4f69-a8f3-54e0cf13b7ea.png">

> ### See high-level aggregations of your search results set, to quickly answer questions about usage and structure

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

### See high-level aggregations of your search results set, to quickly answer questions about usage and structure
```

Today we have a myriad of tooling-specific ways for exporting observability data. OpenTelemetry (OTEL) is an open standard and set of tools that enable adopters to easily switch between different platforms for observability data, as well as extend it to fit their own backends. By adopting OpenTelemetry as a default, changing the way we export observability data, and updating various deployment methods accordingly, we can unify our internal infrastructure, eliminate technical debt, and enable customers to easily feed observability data into their own systems.

This will be a breaking change for customers - for example, for tracing today, we only export Jaeger-specific traces and ship Sourcegraph with Jaeger-specific sidecars and agents. By adopting OpenTelemetry, we would swap this out with an OpenTelemetry instance, and remove the need to have Jaeger shipped with every deployment of Sourcegraph, making Jaeger an opt-in deployment, and prompting customers to bring their own tracing backend by default.

In the future we can leverage a similar OpenTelemetry-by-default approach to integrate logs, metrics, and more in the same manner.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<!-- @macraig: this is a draft --> 
### Precise IDE-like code navigation across 9 different languages
- Go, Java, Scala, Kotlin, Python, TypeScript, JavaScript
- New: Ruby, Rust

### New code navigation admin analytics
Introducing an improved version of the code navigation admin dashboard that helps admins understand their percentage of precise navigation coverage and get precise code graph data configured for all repositories.

### Auto-indexing is now available by default for all Cloud customers
Auto-indexing allows customers to set up precise code navigation for any chosen repositories with the click of a button in the Sourcegraph UI. Now, all Cloud teams can enjoy precise code navigation with only minutes of setup, and any member of a team can turn it on for their respective repositories.

```

- [From code search toward a code intelligence platform](/blog/code-search-to-code-intelligence) - the longer-term vision/story
- [Secure, easy, and scalable Sourcegraph Cloud managed instances for the enterprise](/blog/enterprise-cloud) - the Cloud announcement (including SOC2 Type 2, etc.) that coincides with 4.0

## TL;DR

`TODO(sqs): The section headers with emojis are what I think we should use, but the wording of the bullet points within are WIP`

> ##### 🌅 Code intelligence: more useful, more times daily for every dev

Reviewer 8: @sqs @iskyOS - I really like the framing of finding/getting answers and information about your code vs simply finding things in your code. This comes through in both of your docs ([Alex](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15BDzRycLoy9X9zw-Yf3l1DY5O50pbO-rmh7AYzLjL5I/edit#), [SQS](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EAXfMBidVX1WJERdtnU8x-urrjpnc-80-PoOzeQPNpw/edit)), but isn't apparent in this headline. I think things like precise code nav + auto-indexing, simple UI, smarter code search, and high-level aggregations all support answering questions/learning about your code. 

Here are a few alts:
- Answer questions about your codebase with code intelligence: more useful, more times daily for every dev
- Understand your code with code with code intelligence: more useful, more times daily for every dev
- Get answers with code intelligence: more useful, more times daily for every dev
- Understand with code intelligence: more useful, more times daily for every dev

Author: @abschu I agree, I think this headline could do a better job of summing up the value of the section (and in this case, code intelligence won't be well defined by our audience yet)

I think I like this one most: 
"Get answers with code intelligence: more useful, more times daily for every dev"

- The fastest and most scalable code search (search perf, page load perf, scalability: # repos, big monorepos, # code hosts, etc.)
- TODO how to introduce the simple UI?
- Smarter code search
- High-level aggregations of search results
- Precise code navigation for 9 languages (adding Ruby and Rust) with auto-indexing

> ##### 🏗️ High-leverage ways to improve your entire codebase

Reviewer 8: I love the framing of "improve your entire codebase."

- Run batch changes server side
- Something about the new packaging with batch changes and code insights

##### ☁️ Enterprise Cloud dedicated(/managed?) instances

> - [Secure, easy, and scalable Sourcegraph Cloud dedicated(/managed?) instances for the enterprise](/blog/enterprise-cloud)

Reviewer 8: @sqs @iskyOS - thoughts on bringing "secure, easy, and scalable" into the headline?

Author: @abschu Totally agree; I think it'll also make it fit in with the other headlines more.

"Cloud instances: secure, easy, and scalable"
